THE National President, Traditional Rulers Association of Nigeria, His Imperial Majesty, Eze Thomas Obiefule has reacted to the food blockade by Northern stuff dealers and urged Ndigbo to remain calm and embrace agriculture in order to avert a possible shortage of food. Obiefule, who is the traditional ruler of Umudioka Ancient Kingdom and also the Chairman, Orlu Zonal Council of Traditional Rulers and Community Policing, faulted the Northern traders for their action but said it was a wakeup call for the people of the South. The monarch said such action threatens the principle of one Nigeria which is being preached every day. “As Royal fathers, we preach peace for the cooperate existence of this country. Nigeria is one. We, the Traditional rulers in Nigeria want peace and not division. They should not stop bringing food into the South East and Southern states”, he appealed. According to him, the Traditional rulers in-country would be having their meeting soon to deliberate on the issue which according to him would go a long way in resolving the problem. He called on youths of Igbo extraction to also go into farming especially now white-collar jobs do not come always as expected. Also reacting, the Traditional ruler of Umuenyi Umunkwo, Autonomous community, in Isiala Mbano council area, Imo State, Eze Edwin Njoku condemned the decision taken by the Northern traders to halt food supplies. He stressed the need for Nigerians to continue to be united and live in peace with one another irrespective of religion, background or culture The Monarch who was the former chairman of Okigwe Zonal Council of Traditional Rulers also enjoined Igbos to go into agriculture. “Igbo are hardworking people. They should put more effort into farming so as to avoid shortage of food in future within and outside Igbo land “, the monarch advised. Vanguard News Nigeria The ancient city of Ihim in Umuihim community, Isiala Mbano local government, Imo State came agog last weekend with a great convergence of traditional and paramount rulers, notable personalities and government officials as His Royal Majesty, Eze, Oliver Ohanweh, the Obi Gburugburu of Igboland and Paramount ruler of Ihim Community… November 4, 2018 In "News" TRADITIONAL rulers in Southern regions have advised the federal government to look into the challenges faced by young people in the Southeast region, as one of the proactive measures to douse the agitations September 20, 2017 In "Metro" ACTING President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo Sunday told the South East Traditional Rulers that agitations for secession by the Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, and the ultimatum issued to Ndigbo by the 16 coalition of youths group to vacate the 19 Northern states before 1st October were wrong and a violation… June 18, 2017 In "News"