The Arewa Consultative Forum, ACF, has called on the leadership of the Amalgamated Union of Foodstuff and cattle dealers to put a halt to their so called embargo and blockade. “Nigeria is not at war with itself and such a drastic action is not necessary,” the Forum has said. Chief Audu Ogbe, National Chairman ACF, said on Tuesday that the ACF shared the concerns of Nigerians over the decision of the Amalgamated Union of Foodstuff and cattle dealers to stop movements of needed food from the north to the south. ACF said the blockade “will only further complicate the socio economic and political problems facing our country today.” “The members of the union are said to have suffered severe losses during the #Endsars riots and the recent violence in Sasha in Oyo state targeted against northerners.” “We believe that whatever may be the difficulties of their members in operating in other parts of the country, ACF leadership led by me is willing to help them solve these by talking to security agencies and the government.” “There is no need mounting a blockade by one section of the country against the other. Whatever may be our differences, the ACF as an ardent believer in free trade believes that goods should be allowed to move freely.” “This extreme measure is not progressive and even counterproductive. This is not the way to go.” Vanguard News Nigeria The Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF) has expressed concern over the decision of the Amalgamated Union of Foodstuff and Cattle Dealers to halt movements of food items from the North to the South. The ACF made the observation in a statement issued by its National Chairman, Chief Audu Ogbe, and made… March 3, 2021 In "Agric" ….As DSS invites food, cattle dealers’ union leadership …Amalgamated Union of Foodstuff, cattle dealers stop movement of food to south …It’s a wake-up call for S-West, says YCE …It’s cold war against the South-West—Agbekoya …Action of northerner food dealers strange —Ohanaeze …N-Delta’ll stop flow of oil to North if... PANDEF… March 2, 2021 In "News" *It's a good thing for Igbo —ASETU *Sanwo-Olu must start Lagos Agric Revolution now —Bode George, Olarenwaju, Dallas *N-Delta states must synergize, rejig agricultural policies —Okaba *We'll ensure food production, supply to South not affected —MBF By Anayo Okoli, Dapo Akinrefon, Dennis Agbo, Luminous Jannamike, Emem Idio, Ikechukwu Odu &… March 3, 2021 In "News"