CRC Credit Bureau Limited (CRC) has been named the Best Credit Bureau, Nigeria 2021 by Capital Finance International (CFI.co) a print journal and online resource reporting on business, economics and finance with headquarters in London, United Kingdom. In a statement, the CFI.co judging panel stated in their report that “CRC Credit Bureau helps lenders make informed decisions with a nationwide repository of consumer and corporate credit information that covers more than 95 percent of the domestic credit industry. “CRC has weathered COVID-19 with steely resolve, achieving returns on par with expectations and is anticipating continued improvement. “The Bureau is grateful for lessons learned in 2020 and for the impetus to propel its digital transformation. “It now serves clients more through digital channels, which has created greater market access. CRC has become more data focused with the ability to add value in multiple segments and drive markets with better products and stronger analytics.” The report showcased CRC’s mission to make every individual living in Nigeria stay on top of their credit history through their various products/services and digital platforms that make access to credit information easier than ever. CRC has developed a range of membership products to assist credit-granting clients with the screening of prospective customers, investors, and employees. Each year, CFI.co seeks out individuals and organisations in their various sectors of the economy who truly add value to stakeholders. Reporting from the frontlines of economic convergence, CFI.co realises that best practice is to be found throughout the world. The awards programme aims to identify and reward excellence wherever it is found, in the hope to inspire others to further improve their own performance. The Capital Finance International judges panel, review information generated from independent sources during the nomination process and draw on their members’ expertise to identify candidates for award consideration. Vanguard News Nigeria CRC Credit Bureau Limited (CRC) has been named the Best Credit Bureau, Nigeria 2020 by Capital Finance International (CFI.co), a print journal and online resource reporting business, economics and finance with its Headquarters in London, United Kingdom. January 23, 2020 In "News" As a further testament to its contributions in the credit sphere, CRC Credit Bureau Limited was recognized for ‘Outstanding Facilitation of Access to Finance’ in Nigeria by the Policy Development Facility Phase II (PDFII) at the Non-Oil Export Conference & Awards (NECA), on Thursday March 5, 2020 at the Eko… March 16, 2020 In "News" The Board of Directors of CRC Credit Bureau Limited are pleased to announce the appointment of Mrs. Olubunmi Lawson as an Independent Non- Executive Director of the organization. This appointment has been approved by the Central Bank of Nigeria. May 4, 2020 In "News"