A military team from Defence Headquarters led by Major-General Victor Offiong was at the Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria on an evaluation visit, for possible collaboration on made in Nigeria warfare equipment, international security, defence technology transfer and other defence related research efforts. The leader of the delegation, Major-General Victor Offiong,who led the team on a courtesy visit to the Vice-Chancellor, Prof. Kabir Bala, said the decision by the Defence Headquarters to collaborate with the University and other relevant research and development establishments was vital for exchange of ideas towards tackling the country’s security challenges. Major-General Offiong  explained that the visit was essentially to streamline and harmonise the various research and developments with a view to saving cost, energy and avoid duplication. He said that modern warfare was not all about strength and that visiting the University at this point in time , would give the Nigerian military an edge in its fight against insurgency, banditry and kidnapping. General Offiong, who was in company of Commodore AR Akinwale and Lt. Col. BGA Mohammed ,all from the Defence Headquarters, thanked the Vice-Chancellor and his management team for the warm reception accorded them. The Vice-Chancellor, Prof. Kabir Bala, who was represented by the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Academic), Prof. Danladi A. Ameh, thanked the military team for the visit and assured that the University would be willing to collaborate with the Nigerian Military on any area that would enhance their performance. The team members were taken round Faculties of Physical Sciences, Engineering and Social Sciences where they freely interacted with various subject experts for the collaboration. Vanguard News Nigeria DIRECTOR of  the Institute of Governance and Development Studies, Nasarawa State University, Keffi, Professor Olayemi Akinwumi has said that the nation’s academia have a pivotal role to play in the nation’s quest for industrial growth of defence related institutions especially Defence Industries Corporation of Nigeria, DICON. July 26, 2018 In "Education" The Nigerian Army yesterday arraigned one of its generals, Brigadier-General Muraina Raji, former Commander, 33 Artillery Brigade, Bauchi before a Special Court Martial over the escape of two suspected members of Islamic sect, Boko Haram from the Brigade’s detention facilities. August 17, 2011 In "Headlines" The governors of 19 northern states said, yesterday, that the region was not opposed to the restructuring of the country, contrary to widely held views by some persons and groups. July 28, 2017 In "News"