The location of the abducted schoolgirls’ at Jengede in Zamfara state has been discovered according to a source quoted by AFP on Monday. A military option was not on the cards, to avoid “putting the lives of the hostages in danger”, AFP reported. Meanwhile, authorities in the state are holding negotiations for the release of the 317 schoolgirls kidnapped by criminal gangs last week, sources familiar with the talks said. Gunmen from cattle rustling and kidnapping-for-ransom gangs on Friday invaded the Government Girls Secondary School in remote Jangebe village, whisking the girls away from their hostel. It is the third school attack in less than three months — a series that has revived traumatic memories of the “Chibok girls” kidnapped by jihadists nearly seven years ago. Since the incident, government officials have been in talks with the kidnappers, known locally as bandits, over the girls’ release, two sources told AFP. The sources asked not to be identified due to the sensitivity of the issue. “Talks are ongoing with the bandits holding the girls and we hope to make a breakthrough soon,” said a government official privy to the negotiations. “It is a delicate situation which requires patience and tact as it involves the lives of hundreds of girls.” Recently, some bandits renounced violence and accepted the state government’s amnesty offer in exchange for laying down their arms. A source said, “repentant bandits” were being contacted to reach out to their former comrades as part of efforts to free the students. “The negotiations have gone far, with a few hurdles on the way, and once such hurdles are surmounted the girls will be released. That’s our ardent hope,” the source added. On Sunday, a delegation from the federal government met with Zamfara state governor Bello Matawalle, giving an assurance from President Muhammadu Buhari that the girls would be reunited with their families. Aviation Minister Hadi Sirika said all that mattered was the “safe return of these children” and there was no need for “blame games.” Northwestern and central Nigeria have seen a surge in attacks by heavily armed criminal gangs raiding villages, killing and abducting residents after looting and torching homes. On Saturday, 42 people — 27 schoolboys, three teachers and 12 family members abducted by gunmen in Kagara in central Niger state — were released after spending 10 days in captivity. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria Authorities in Zamfara are holding negotiations for the release of 317 schoolgirls kidnapped by criminal gangs last week, sources familiar with the talks said Monday. Gunmen on Friday invaded the Government Girls Secondary School in remote Jangebe village, whisking the girls away from their hostel. It is the third school… March 1, 2021 In "News" Boko Haram recruited three local gangs in to kidnap hundreds of schoolboys on its behalf in Katsina, security and local sources said Wednesday. The jihadist group has claimed responsibility for Friday's attack, which targeted a secondary school in the town of Kankara, in Katsina state. But sources told AFP the… December 16, 2020 In "Metro" Suspected armed bandits raided a school dormitory in Zamfara overnight, a teacher and parent told AFP on Friday, raising fears of another mass kidnapping in the Northern region. Bandits kidnap schoolgirls in Jangebe, Zamfara "More than 300 girls are unaccounted for after a headcount of remaining students," said a teacher… February 26, 2021 In "Metro"