PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) survey conducted on family businesses globally has shown that only 16 percent of Nigerian family businesses prioritize sustainability plan for growth agenda in their business model, as China and Japan lead in business sustainability. The survey noted that the key priorities facing Nigerian family businesses are different from global trends which reflect the market condition. The survey which was conducted across 87 territories revealed that the current thinking and outlook of 2801 family businesses show that Asian family businesses led the pack with commitment to prioritizing sustainability in their strategy with Europe and American family businesses lagging behind China and Japan. The survey reported that 79 percent and 78 percent of respondents in China’s mainland and Japan respectively considered sustainability at the heart of everything they do compared to USA’s 23 percent and UK’s 39 percent. The survey also observed that this reluctance to embrace sustainability comes despite the fact that family owned businesses are highly likely to see a responsibility to society. According to Family Business Leader at PwC, Peter Englisch, “family businesses globally have a strong commitment to a wider social purpose. But there is a growing pressure  from customers, lenders, shareholders and even employees, to demonstrate a meaningful impact around sustainability and wider ESG issues. He added: “Many listed companies have started to respond but this survey indicates that family businesses have a more traditional approach to social contribution. Family businesses must adapt to changing expectations and, by failing to do so, are creating a potential business risk.” Vanguard News Nigeria Following the age-long challenge of obtaining funding faced by small businesses, PricewaterHouse Coopers (PwC) has said that Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) in Nigeria face an estimated N617.3 billion in funding gap annually and accounted for less than one percent of banks’ credit in 2018. June 23, 2020 In "Business" As the impact of the Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic on businesses and the general economy continues to rage, a new survey by the PriceWaterhouseCoopers, PwC, has revealed that liquidity and staff retention are the top concerns for top business executives in Nigeria. April 21, 2020 In "Business" The COVID-19 pandemic has led to the collapse of global markets for some sectors and disrupted agricultural supply chains, yet agribusiness CEOs in Africa remain determined to steer their organizations forward. November 19, 2020 In "Agric"