The Federal Government has backed the President of Nigeria Football Federation, Amaju Melvin Pinnick in his quest to win a seat on the FIFA Council – the highest decision-making organ in world football – at next week’s Confederation of African Football elections in Rabat, Morocco. At a press conference addressed by the Permanent Secretary in the Federal Ministry of Youth and Sports, Engineer Nebolisa Anako on behalf of the Hon. Minister Mr Sunday Dare in Abuja on Thursday, the Government stated that “Mr Amaju’s ambition would further reposition Nigeria in the global football map where we have made remarkable inroads” and indicated that his triumph would follow in the glorious steps of illustrious compatriots Dr Akinwunmi Adesina (re-elected as President of Africa Development Bank) and Dr Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala (first female/ first African Director-General of the World Trade Organization) in recent times. “If the NFF President wins the position, it would not be a victory for the Federal Government and all Nigerians alone, but the African continent. He would be a great ambassador of our great country if elected into the FIFA Council. As a member of the CAF Executive, Pinnick is aware of the task ahead and the Federal Government’s support to the actualization of his dream,” Anako said. He added: “On behalf of the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, Muhammadu Buhari GCFR, and all Nigerians, we hereby pledge our unflinching support to Mr Pinnick because his victory would be our collective victory. “(Sports Minister) Mr Dare believes Amaju can use his position and connections in CAF and FIFA to help promote and develop Nigeria and African football in all ramifications. Let us be resolute and firm in our support…This is no time to stand on the fence, but to be partakers in the scheme of things.” NFF’s 2nd Vice President, Mallam Shehu Dikko, who stood in for Pinnick (who is already in Morocco), thanked President Muhammadu Buhari. Vanguard News Nigeria The Government of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, through the Youth and Sports Ministry, has further endorsed the candidature of NFF President Amaju Pinnick for a seat on the Executive Committee of Confederation of African Football, at the polls scheduled for next month’s Congress in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. February 28, 2017 In "Sports" AS the clock ticks  and the Monday, August 20 deadline given to Nigeria by FIFA to put its football house in order, Nigeria Football Federation president, Amaju Pinnick said things will be resolved amicably and Nigeria will escape a FIFA suspension. August 19, 2018 In "Sports" In the space of three years, President of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF), Amaju Pinnick has gone full circle in the ladder of football administration, that sees him now occupying a seat in the Executive Committee of the Confederation of African Football. March 18, 2017 In "Sports"