Taraba state has taken delivery of 56,250 doses of the Oxford AstraZeneca COVID-19 Vaccine. The vaccine arrived the premises of Taraba State Primary Health Care Development Agency, TSPHCDA, at exactly 10am. The Director of the agency for Immunization and disease control, Dr Kenneth Tijos, who presenter the vaccine to the state government, said the state’s consignment come into the state through the Yola international airport. The Permanent Secretary of the state ministry of health, Ebenezer Apake appreciated front line health workers in the state for their resilience all through the period of the pandemic. He was also optimistic that administering the vaccine for all Nigerians would ensure the world goes back to normal. He also enjoined residents of the state to continually maintain all preventive measures outlined by the World Health Organization, WHO. The Executive Secretary of TSPHDA, Aminu Jauro, thanked the federal government for the timely delivery of the vaccines. Other items that were delivered with the vaccines include safety syringes, safety boxes and adhesive plasters. Vanguard News Nigeria Taraba state has taken delivery of 56,250 doses of the Oxford AstraZeneca COVID-19 Vaccine. The vaccines arrived at the premises of Taraba State Primary Health Care Development Agency, TSPHCDA, at exactly 10 am. The Director of the agency for immunization and disease control, Dr Kenneth Tijos, who presented the vaccine… March 11, 2021 In "News" …Assures effective administration Enugu State Government alongside Ebonyi and Anambra states, on Thursday, took delivery of the first batch of Oxford-AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccines from the National Primary Health Care Development Agency (NPHCDA), at the Akanu Ibiam International Airport, Enugu. The vaccines for Enugu State, which arrived the Enugu airport at… March 10, 2021 In "News" By Femi Bolaji, Jalingo As Taraba state anticipates the delivery of the AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine, 56,000 health workers across the state are primed to be the first recipients of the vaccine. Executive Secretary of the State primary health care development agency, Aminu Jauro, disclosed this in a chat with Vanguard… March 11, 2021 In "News"