The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has made good its word, as it has released 50,000 metric tonnes of Maize into the Nigerian market. The Bank’s February 2021 release of Maize in fulfilment of its pledge to reduce the price of the commodity, was done through the Anchor Borrowers’ Programme (ABP) to major poultry feed producers and poultry producers in the country. The CBN facilitated release of the 50,000 metric tonnes of Maize in the second week of February, has made an impact as the Maize Market has recorded a reduction in price from  N200,000.00 per metric tonnes to about  N180,000.00 per metric tonnes. It is still anticipated that the current will further reduce. Major  beneficiaries of the February release  include:  Premier Flour Mills, Crown – Olam, Grand Cereals, Animal Care, Amobyn and Hybrid Feeds. Others include Zartech, Wacot, Sayeed Farms, Pandagri Novum and Premium Farms as well as the South West, South-South, North West and North Central chapters of the Poultry Association of Nigeria (PAN). The benefiting companies represent the major players in the poultry value chain in the country. It will be recalled that the Central Bank of Nigeria had in January this year, announced to release 300,000 metric tonnes of Maize into the Nigerian Maize Market.    This is to bridge the shortfall in production and augment local production of the commodity. The current shortfall in the quantity of maize available in the market, that CBN is working on mitigating, is attributed to activities of banditry, drought in some parts of the country last year, activities of hoarders and middlemen as well as insecurity around the major maize producing belt of Niger, Kaduna, Katsina, Zamfara and part of Kano states. Vanguard News Nigeria By Babajide Komolafe ECONOMY Maize farmers under the Anchor Borrowers’ Programme (ABP) of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) are set to release about 300,000 metric tonnes of maize which watchers believe will reduce the current price of maize. The huge supply boost according to stakeholders is aimed at inducing… January 19, 2021 In "Economy" say millions of Nigerians risk thrown into poverty, crime Assures production of 25 million metric tonnes by ending of 2021 By Gabriel Ewepu - Abuja Maize farmers and processors under the auspices of Maize Association of Nigeria, MAAN, Maize Growers, Farmers and Manufacturers Association of Nigeria, MAGFAMAN, on Tuesday, condemned… February 2, 2021 In "Agric" With subsidized rate of N90, 000 By Gabriel Ewepu - Abuja Following hardship faced by poultry farmers, President Muhammadu Buhari, Thursday, approved the release of 5,000 metric tonnes of maize from the National Strategic Grains Reserve, NSGR, to support the Poultry Association of Nigeria, PAN, in order to mitigate the… September 3, 2020 In "Agric"