Mr. Peter Obaseki, Chief Operating Officer of FCMB Group Plc, has retired. He was also an Executive Director of the Group. The Board of Directors of FCMB Group announced Obaseki’s retirement, with effect from March 1. The Chairman of the Group’s Board of Directors, Mr. Oladipupo Jadesimi, thanked Obaseki for his service and support to the Board over the years. Obaseki’s retirement was approved at a meeting of the Board of the Group on February 26, which has been communicated the Nigerian Stock Exchange, NSE. FCMB Group Plc comprises commercial and retail banking (First City Monument Bank Limited, Credit Direct Limited, FCMB (UK) Limited and FCMB Microfinance Bank Limited. The other two business arms are investment banking (FCMB Capital Markets Limited and CSL Stockbrokers Limited); as well as asset and wealth management (FCMB Pensions Limited, FCMB Asset Management Limited and FCMB Trustees Limited). Vanguard News Nigeria Shareholders of FCMB Group Plc, the holding company of First City Monument Bank (FCMB) Limited last weekend, unanimously approved the proposed dividend payment of N1.98 billion for the financial year ended December 2015. The shareholders commended the Board and management for the performance during the year under review despite the… May 2, 2016 In "Business" By Babajide Komolafe OVER the years, the financial services industry in Nigeria has undergone various forms of transformation in terms of operations, service delivery and other indices of performance. Increased sophistication in the lifestyle of people, changing tastes, demanding schedules, technological savviness, amongst other modern trends, have seen operators in… February 18, 2019 In "Business" If  a  pension is  deemed to be an invaluable source of income for the retired, and the Federal Government of Nigeria so motivated, introduced the Pension Reform  Act of  2004, it should  not be a surprise that within 13 years from inception, the pension industry has already risen to N6.02… November 13, 2017 In "Business"