The leader of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the South East geo-political zone and Governor of Enugu State, Rt. Hon. Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, on Saturday, led party delegates to the zonal congress to elect Chief Ali Odefa as the National Vice Chairman (South East) of the PDP. The PDP zonal congress also elected 14 other members of the Zonal Executive Committee of the party through a peaceful and transparent election that was conducted by the Electoral Committee from the National Leadership of the PDP, led by Dr. Ibrahim Umar. The electoral process was monitored and thereafter endorsed by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) as orderly, peaceful and credible. The other elected Zonal Working Committee members, who were sworn in alongside the new National Vice Chairman, Chief Odefa, are Chief Ugwu James (Zonal Secretary); Hon Emeka Okeke (Zonal Treasurer); Hon. Casmir Ugwu (Zonal Financial Secretary); Hon. Mike Ahumibe (Zonal Organizing Secretary); Barr. Ukpai Ukairo (Zonal Legal Adviser); Engr. Augustine Okeke; (Zonal Publicity Secretary); Hon. Lazarus Ogbe (Zonal Auditor); Hon. Mrs. Mary Omile (Zonal Woman Leader) and Comrade Chidiebere Egwu (Zonal Youth Leader). The five others who were elected as Zonal Ex-officio members are Chief Damian Ozurumba (Abia); Hon. Mrs. Anthonia Nwankwu (Anambra); Engr. Francis Kalu (Ebonyi); Hon. Chief Romanus Edeh (Enugu) and Sir. Stanley Ekezie (Imo). The zonal congress which was attended by the Deputy Governor of Abia State, Rt. Hon. Ude Oko Chukwu, the PDP National Organising Secretary, Col. Austin Akobundu, the National Youth Leader, Rt. Hon. Sunday Udeh-Okoye, former Governors of Ebonyi, Anambra and Imo states, Senator Sam Egwu, Peter Obi and Rt. Hon. Emeka Ihedioha respectively, National and State Assembly members from the zone, Barr. Olisa Metu, Chief Mrs. Josephine Anenih, Chief Chris Ubah, and other esteemed leaders of the party in the zone, including the new returnee in Anambra State, Hon. Tony Nwoye, also elected six National Ex-officio members of the party from the South East. The newly elected National Ex-officio members are Chief Ibe Nwadioha (Abia); Chief Barr. Okey Muo-Aroh (Anambra); Lady Barr. Nonye Nwangwu (Anambra); Hon. Harrison Onwe (Ebonyi); Princess Edith Okoro N. (Enugu) and Hon. Chinemerem Madu (Imo). Declaring Odefa as the winner, the Chairman of the Electoral Committee, Dr. Umar, after announcing the result, said: “I Dr. Ibrahim Umar, the Chairman of the Electoral Panel of the 2021 South East Zonal Congress hereby declare Chief Ali Odefa as the duly elected National Vice Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party in the South East”. Endorsing the PDP zonal congress, the Enugu State Resident Electoral Commissioner, Dr. Emeka Ononamadu stated: “We have observed the process and it was orderly; it was peaceful and the voting went successfully and we are satisfied with the outcome; so thank you for this peaceful congress”. Authenticating the exercise, PDP South East leaders, such as the Deputy Governor of Abia State, Rt. Hon. Oko Chukwu, Mr. Peter Obi, Senator Sam Egwu and the Speaker of the Enugu State House of Assembly, Rt. Hon. Edward Ubosi, unanimously described the electoral process as peaceful, free, fair and credible, declaring that it was the best election in the South East in recent time. Vanguard News Nigeria The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has asked its members in court against the leadership of the party in Anambra to withdraw all litigations ahead of the November governorship poll in the state. The South-East National Vice Chairman of the party, Chief Ali Odefa, made the request in Awka during a… January 5, 2021 In "Politics" Barely 24 hours after the Peoples Democratic Party state congress in Anambra, a third faction led by Mr Ngozi Agudosi has emerged and threatened to institute a legal action against a faction congress committee chairman led by Ladi Edun. May 12, 2016 In "News" The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has asked its members in court against the leadership of the party in Anambra to withdraw all litigations ahead of the November governorship poll in the state. The South-East National Vice Chairman of the party, Chief Ali Odefa, made the request in Awka during a… January 5, 2021 In "Politics"