EDO State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki at the weekend maintained that he has no personal grudges against his predecessor and former chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, but only dislikes his style of politics. Obaseki disclosed this to journalists in Auchi, Etsako-West Local Government Area of the state, at the centenary birthday Thanksygiving of Msgr. Thomas Oleghe and 18th Canonical Erection Anniversary of the Diocese of Auchi held at Immaculate Conception Cathedral in Auchi. Obaseki, who exchanged greetings with an elbow-bump in compliance with COVID-19 preventive protocols, with his predecessor, said they are both sons of Edo with interest of the state at heart. The governor said: “I don’t have anything personal against Oshiomhole. I may not like his politics, but he has not done anything personal against me. We all are interacting with the interest of the country and the development of our community at heart.” The governor said the Zonal Congress of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), which was scheduled to hold this Saturday, was postponed due to the local government elections taking place in Delta State. “The Zonal Congress, which was to hold today has been postponed to Tuesday and it’s a normal routine to satisfy the party’s constitution; there is nothing amiss,” he added. On his part, Oshiomhole, who was a guest at the event, hailed his successor, Governor Obaseki, describing him as ‘his brother and friend.’ Oshiomhole stated: “Once the governor speaks, the matter ends. The governor knows that pensioners here might not be able to do much, that is why he said every other thing required to complete the hostel of the Catholic School of Nursing and Midwifery in Uzairue, his government will do.” Vanguard News Nigeria By Omeiza Ajayi Indications have emerged as to why the National Chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress APC, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole boycotted Wednesday's Auchi Day celebration in Edo State, an event some political plaudits had touted as an opportunity to reconcile him with his estranged godson and state Governor,… January 9, 2020 In "News" BENIN CITY— NATIONAL  Chairman of All Progressives Congress, APC, Mr Adams Oshiomhole, has said the alleged rift between himself and his successor, Governor Godwin Obaseki, was a creation of people with personal interest, describing Obaseki as his brother. August 13, 2019 In "News" …We will not play politics of favouritism, says Obaseki Attempts by the Edo State Council of Traditional Rulers and Chiefs chaired by His Royal Majesty, Oba Ewuare II, the Oba of Benin, to resolve the political impasse between Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki and his predecessor and National Chairman… January 9, 2020 In "News"