The Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of Airtel Nigeria, Mr. Segun Ogunsanya, has called on business leaders to cultivate qualities such as empathy, integrity, good communication skills and a strong sense of purpose if they must succeed and achieve results during turbulent times. Speaking  at a  recently concluded Advertisers Association of Nigeria, ADVAN, Business Roundtable,  Ogunsanya said leaders must never be in denial whenever there is a crisis. He stated that CEOs must be bold, decisive and should immediately confront any crisis  while demonstrating the ability to handle complex situations. According to him, the ability to demonstrate empathy as a leader is essential to the success of any business. For him, leaders must confront reality and not lose the essence of the organisation’s purpose during disruptive times. He said: “Good leadership involves communicating effectively. As an individual occupying a leadership position, most especially during a turbulent period, you need to constantly communicate with your people. It is important to leave the communication channels open. By communicating, you’re not only building trust but also opening an avenue for collective contributions and this will drive engagement and solutions. “Showing vulnerability as a leader is not a sign of weakness, it is simply being human. An honest leader should be able to show vulnerability whilst also demonstrating compassion. “One of the ways you can show compassion during turbulent times is by offering employees the opportunity to choose to work at home or select days in which tahey can work physically at the office. Empathy and compassion not only inspire your people but also help in building a collaborative environment,” he said. The event, ADVAN CMO Forum was initiated to provide the nation’s business leaders with a platform to hold meaningful discourse on ways to better navigate the fast-changing marketing communications and business landscape. The platform has, over the years, hosted several pertinent conversations on effective marketing and business leadership for the future. Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, Airtel Nigeria, Mr. Segun Ogunsanya, has been bestowed with an Honourary Citizenship of the State of Georgia by the Georgia Legislative Black Caucus, United States of America (USA). December 12, 2016 In "News" Bharti Airtel, a leading global telecommunications services provider with operations in 20 countries across Asia and Africa, today announced the appointment of Segun Ogunsanya as the Chief Executive Officer of Airtel Networks Ltd, Nigeria (“Airtel Nigeria”). November 2, 2012 In "Business" The Advertisers Association (ADVAN) is set to host business leaders in discussions on ‘Strategic Leadership in turbulent times’ The event which is scheduled to hold on the 18th of February will assemble top Nigerian CMOs and CEOs to debate requisite leadership capabilities in disruptive times. The ADVAN CMO Forum was birthed… February 11, 2021 In "News"