Workers in Ekiti State on Wednesday gave the Speaker of the Ekiti State House of Assembly, Hon Funminiyi Afuye a 7-day ultimatum to reinstate 21 workers allegedly sacked by the House of Assembly service commission. The organized Labour threatened that workers would commence indefinite strike from March 10, 2021, should the Assembly refuse to rescind its decision on the sacked workers The workers were in January 2021 shoved out of the system over what they called illegal recruitment into the service by the immediate past administration. The letter dated 3rd March 2021 and made available to journalists on Wednesday, was signed by the Secretaries of Nigerian Labour Congress, Com Akinyemi Eunice, Secretary, Trade Union Congress, Com Kuloogun Lawrence, and the Joint Negotiating Council, Com. Gbenga Olowoyo. The letter reads: “With constraint, the state leadership of the organized labour wishes to remind you that the twenty-one (21) workers erroneously sacked by the Ekiti State House of Assembly Service Commission after many appeal letters and personal contacts to your esteemed person and other stakeholders, the sacked workers are yet to be reinstated. “As a matter of fact, the state-organized labour believes in peaceful resolution of the issue but the leadership of the organized labour has been over-stretched due to indifference attitude of the Mr. Speaker and the entire House of Assembly leadership. “Mr. Speaker Sir, You will recall that; the organized labour called your attention to this ugly development vide a letter dated 11th January 2021 with ref ESOL/EKS/VOl1/68 titled Re-Staff Audit in Ekiti State House of Assembly Service Commission Need for caution to enable your office address this issue squarely. “Also, another letter dated 26th January 2021 with ref ESOL /EKS/ VOLI/159 titled Re-Staff Audit in Ekiti State House of Assembly Commission. Need for Caution -An appeal on behalf of the alleged workers; the letter was unattended to. (See Annex1-9) “In the same vein, on 8th February 2021, another letter vide ref ESOL/ EKS VOL1/ 144 titled: “letter of commendation on the implementation of New Minimum Wage and Consequential Adjustment and request on other matters affecting welfare of workers addressed to Mr. Governor, whereas the letter was copied to your esteemed office with particular reverence to paragraph 10 of the letter” The labour unions said the state leadership of the organized labour has waited patiently enough for the leadership of the Ekiti State House Assembly to address this issue of 21 sacked workers by recalling them back to duty but to no avail. “Consequent upon the above, the entire Civil Servants of Ekiti State through the organized labour leadership are hereby demanding for the immediate reinstatement of the 21 sacked workers of the House of Assembly within 7-days i from Thursday 4th March 2021. “In a very clear term, if nothing is done before the expiration of the ultimatum the entire Civil Servants will occupy and close down the House of Assembly complex with placard protest on Wednesday 10th March, 2021 which will culminate into strike action”. Vanguard News Nigeria By Rotimi Ojomoyela, Ado-Ekiti There was a protest on Tuesday in Ekiti state as about 21 workers allegedly sacked by the Ekiti State House of Assembly and organised labour, on Tuesday, protested against the State House of Assembly over their "unjust dismissal" from the service of the House. The protest,… January 12, 2021 In "News" ADO EKITI—THE All Progressives Congress, APC, in Ekiti State has condemned the sack of 180 workers in Ekiti State House of Assembly by the management of the assembly January 9, 2015 In "News" The organised labour in Ekiti State has declared today, a work-free day in the state as a mark of solidarity with Governor Ayodele Fayose on his victory at the Supreme Court. April 17, 2015 In "News"