FIFA have asked three candidates to back South Africa’s Patrice Motsepe in the upcoming Confederation of African Football (CAF) presidential election, a source close to one of the candidates told AFP. The previous incumbent Ahmad Ahmad was banned for breaches of FIFA’s ethical code, but has had the ban suspended by the Court of Arbitration for Sport. World body FIFA are keen for a fresh start in Africa, the source said. Motsepe is a South African mining billionaire and owner of reigning domestic champions Mamelodi Sundowns. According to the source, Augustin Senghor of Senegal and Ahmed Yahya of Mauritania are open to the idea of backing Motsepe and becoming vice-presidents themselves. Jacques Anouma of Ivory Coast would be offered a roll as advisor to Motsepe. “Motsepe is FIFA’s preferred candidate, they want someone new and not implicated in the former presidency,” the source said. “They want a better image so they can attract investors and sponsors.” FIFA have yet to reply to AFP’s request for comments. The CAF Presidential election is scheduled to be held in Rabat, Morocco on March 12. Vanguard News Nigeria Nigeria Football Federation president Amaju Pinnick has announced his intention to vie for a seat on the FIFA Council, finally ending speculation as to his next move. There had been speculation the Nigeria FA boss will throw his hat in the ring for next year’s Confederation of African Football (CAF)… November 10, 2020 In "Sports" A South African billionaire businessman and the first black African on the Forbes billionaires list, Patrice Motsepe has apologized for telling United States President, Donald Trump that “Africa loves you” during the World Economic Forum (WEF) in Davos last week. A video of Patrice Motsepe’s remarks to Trump went viral… January 29, 2020 In "Foreign" The Confederation of African Football (CAF) says South Africa’s President Jacob Zuma has pledged his full support to CAF President Issa Hayatou ahead of African football’s upcoming elections. February 18, 2017 In "News"