The Nigerian Army has called on popular Islamic Scholar Sheik Ahmed Gumi to exercise caution in his opinion regarding how troops are deployed and other issues pertaining to national security. The warning follows a video that had Sheik Gumi telling bandits that non-Muslim soldiers were the ones killing them and that troops are deployed along ethnic and religious lines. A statement signed by Director, Army Public Relations, Mohammed Yerima titled NIGERIAN ARMY DOES NOT DEPLOY ITS TROOPS ALONG ETHNIC OR RELIGIOUS LINES described Gumi’s utterances as capable of dragging the image and reputation of one of the most reliable national institutions to disrepute. It reads, “The attention of the Nigerian Army has been drawn to a viral video-clip showing the renowned and respected Islamic scholar, Sheikh Ahmed Gumi alleging that non-Muslim soldiers were responsible for the attacks against bandits. In the video clip, the Islamic scholar was seen telling the bandits that the soldiers involved in most attacks against them were non-Muslims. He further stated that they should be aware that soldiers are divided into Muslims and non-Muslims. “While the Nigerian Army would not want to join issues with the the respected Sheik Ahmed Gumi, it is however important to restate that the Nigerian Army as national institution does not deploy its troops along ethnic or religious lines. “Therefore Sheikh Ahmed Gumi and other opinion merchants are please enjoined to exercise restraint not to drag the image and reputation of one of the most reliable national institutions to disrepute. “The Nigerian Army remains the pride of the nation and has continually defended the territorial integrity of this great nation. Comments suggesting to mudslide the image and reputation of the Nigerian Army are not only inimical but tended towards creating bad blood amongst Nigerians. “Furthermore, most operations conducted by the Nigerian Army were done in strict adherence to rules of engagement, code of conduct and respect for the fundamental human rights of the citizenry without any exception. It is therefore, disturbing that an opinion leader would deliberately want to disparage the Nigeria Army to portray it in bad light. “The Nigerian Army wishes to seize this opportunity to advise opinion leaders to be more courteous while expressing their views, taking into cognisance the imperative for national security, particularly at this difficult times when our gallant troops have redoubled their efforts to tackle the myriads of security challenges facing our dear nation. What our troops need now is public support to discharge their responsibility effectively and in the most professional manner.” Vanguard News Nigeria By Emmanuel Aziken The Unity Advocacy Group (UAG) has alerted Nigerians of the dangers of having a military divided along religious and ethnic lines. UAG reaction follows recent statement credited to Sheikh Abubakar Gumi, where he accused non-Muslim soldiers of carrying out orchestrated killings in some communities and precipitating anger… March 2, 2021 In "News" By Nwafor Sunday Former aide to President Goodluck Jonathan, Pastor Reno Omokri, has expressed concern over the country’s security situation. In a brief statement, Omokri asked how possible it could be for a popular Islamic Scholar, Sheikh Abubakar Gumi to locate and take photographs with bandits and herdsmen, whereas the… February 20, 2021 In "News" When I read the first letter by a certain Sheikh Gumi to All Progressives Congress, APC, presidential hopeful, General Muhammadu Buhari, I was a bit confused. But on closer inquiry, I discovered that this was Sheikh Ahmad Gumi, not Sheikh Abubakar Gumi, the late leader of the Izalatul Bidi’a wa… October 30, 2014 In "People & Politics"