A sweeping police reform package that bans choke holds and combats racial profiling cleared the US House of Representatives Wednesday, five days before the trial of a white officer charged with murdering African-American George Floyd. The bill is named after Floyd, who died last May 25 when then-Minneapolis police officer Derek Chauvin pressed his knee on the victim’s neck for eight minutes and 46 seconds. The shocking killing was caught on video and sparked mass protests across the nation in the midst of the 2020 election. The George Floyd Justice in Policing Act cleared the House last year but was blocked in the Republican-led Senate. With President Joe Biden in office since January, and the Senate narrowly controlled by Democrats, the bill was reintroduced last week and it passed Wednesday largely along party lines, 220 to 212. Just one Republican supported the measure, while two Democrats opposed it. “Nearly one year ago, George Floyd gasped his last words, ‘I can’t breathe,’ and ignited a nationwide reckoning on the racial injustice and police brutality in America,” House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said before the vote. “This legislation will not erase centuries of systemic racism and excessive policing in America,” but it takes a “tremendous step” toward stopping the violence and improving relations between law enforcement and the communities they serve, she added. The bill now heads to the Senate, where its fate is uncertain given that the chamber is evenly divided between Democrats and Republicans. A watered down version of the bill has a higher likelihood of reaching Biden for his signature. The president told Democrats Wednesday that he “strongly” supports the full bill. The measure bans choke holds and no-knock warrants, combats racial profiling, limits the transfer of military equipment to local police forces, expands police training, and establishes a database to track officer misconduct. Its most controversial provision is likely the restriction of officer immunity. The longstanding legal doctrine shields police from civil lawsuits — something which Pelosi and other Democrats have criticized as unfairly protecting police from accountability. Republicans have argued that the measure would strip police forces of funding, tie the hands of officers and make communities less safe. House Republican Debbie Lesko warned that the bill “leaves police unequipped to deal with dangerous or life-threatening situations and limits the tools that police can use in the field.” Floyd’s family heralded the bill’s House passage in a statement from their lawyers Wednesday evening. “This represents a major step forward to reform the relationship between police officers and communities of color and impose accountability on law enforcement officers whose conscious decisions preserve the life or cause the death of Americans, including so many people of color,” attorneys Ben Crump and Antonio Romanucci said in the statement. The trial of Chauvin, charged with second-degree murder of Floyd, begins Monday in Minneapolis. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria Pressure for sweeping reforms to policing intensified in the United States on Monday after two weeks of protests over the death of African American George Floyd, as the white officer accused of killing him prepared for his first court appearance. Demonstrators’ anger over the May 25 death of Floyd, 46,… June 8, 2020 In "Foreign" The mayor of Minneapolis called Wednesday for criminal charges against the white police officer seen on video kneeling against the neck of a handcuffed black man who complained that he could not breathe and died in police custody. Based on the video, Mayor Jacob Frey said officer Derek Chauvin should… May 29, 2020 In "Foreign" Demonstrators clashed with police, looted stores and set fires as a man was fatally shot during a second night of protests in the US city of Minneapolis Wednesday over the killing of a black man by a police officer. Police fired tear gas and formed a human barricade to keep… May 28, 2020 In "Foreign"