British television host Piers Morgan on Tuesday left his role presenting ITV breakfast show “Good Morning Britain”, shortly after sparking 41,000 complaints and storming off the set in a row over Meghan Markle. “Following discussions with ITV, Piers Morgan has decided now is the time to leave Good Morning Britain,” the network said in a statement. “ITV has accepted this decision and has nothing further to add.” Morgan has been a vocal critic of Markle ever since she cut off contact with him after she met Prince Harry, and he launched a scathing attack on her following the couple’s interview with Oprah Winfrey. The former CNN host said he did not believe Markle when she said at one point she “didn’t want to be alive anymore”, sparking a deluge of complaints. Barely a day after his remarks, regulator Ofcom said that it had already received more than 41,000 complaints. Morgan also stormed off the set on Tuesday morning after clashing with fellow presenter Alex Beresford over the interview. Beresford told Morgan “I understand you’ve got a personal relationship with Meghan Markle, or had one, and she cut you off. “She’s entitled to cut you off if she wants to. Has she said anything about you since she cut you off? I don’t think she has but yet you continue to trash her,” he added, leading to Morgan’s departure. Morgan has also been the most outspoken media critic of the government’s handling of the coronavirus pandemic over the past year, leading to many high-profile rows with ministers. Morgan hosted his CNN show for three years until it was axed due to falling ratings in 2014. He irked US gun owners after launching a crusade for greater gun control and struggled after stepping into the shoes of popular host Larry King in the coveted 9:00 pm primetime slot. Vanguard News Nigeria Meghan Markle's estranged father on Tuesday suggested that his daughter exaggerated racism in the British royal family during her interview with US chat show host Oprah Winfrey. Thomas Markle told ITV the couple's two-hour chat with Winfrey was "way over the top" and suggested a royal family member could have… March 9, 2021 In "Foreign" THE boy whose mother was hounded to her death by the paparazzi has come of age. And he is reminding the British establishment of everything it has tried desperately to forget about that tragedy, and more. January 24, 2020 In "Converstion with Azu" Prince Harry and Meghan Markle's wedding this weekend was in turmoil Tuesday following reports her father may not attend after a paparazzi scandal, rocking the royal family's meticulous planning for the landmark occasion. May 15, 2018 In "News"