The Senate Thursday queried the Ministry of Environment on how over 55 vehicles got missing from the Ministry. Senator Matthew Urhoghide, Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Edo South led Senate Committee on Public Accounts raised the alarm, just as the Committee is relying on the 2018 Auditor-General for the Federation’s Report. The query read, ” Audit observed that 55 vehicles were not presented for physical inspection, all efforts to inspect and confirm their existence proved abortive and the exact location of these vehicles could not be ascertained. “We are aware that some officers take ministry vehicles away with them when going on transfer or retirement. ” The audit further observed that the motor vehicles Logbooks had not been updated, making it difficult to track the movement of these vehicles and track their record of maintenance. It is also noted that some official vehicles carry private plate number and registered number. ” The above anomalies are because of failure on the part of the management to ensure proper record keeping due process in the Ministry. ” Government vehicles may be diverted for private use, unauthorized journey may be undertaken due to lack of adherence to internal control system put in place. ” No response was received from the Management of our report. ” The permanent Secretary should account for the 55 vehicles not presented during the audit. He should also be sanctioned in accordance with provision of FR3129.” On his part, the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry, Abel Olumuyiwa however failed to defend the allegation, even as all his spirited efforts to present some vehicles as part of the alleged missing vehicles were rejected because the vehicles do not have chasis number. The Committee, therefore, sustained the query of the Auditor General against the Ministry of Environment. Vanguard News Nigeria By Henry Umoru The Senate Wednesday queried the Ministry of Science and Technology for giving out two vehicles worth N17 million to pay the debt of N2 million owned contractors. The two vehicles with registration numbers are M50-101G and MGO-12FG respectively. The revelation came up following the 2015 Auditor-General Report… October 7, 2020 In "News" By Henry Umoru - Abuja The Senate has uncovered how the officials of Ministry of Health mismanaged N559 million generated from sales of 681,487 units of International Certificate of vaccination (Yellow Card)  to the public The Senate has also discovered that nine assorted vehicles belonging to the Ministry were taken… December 17, 2020 In "Politics" By Henry Umoru - Abuja The Senate has discovered that nine assorted vehicles belonging to the Ministry of Health were taken away by some former officials as they were leaving the service of the ministry. The upper chamber of the National Assembly (NASS) also uncovered how the officials of the… December 16, 2020 In "Politics"