Kogi State Governor Yahaya Bello has cautioned Nigerian youths to desist from any form of criminality, advising them to venture into farming rather than perpetrating evil in the name of banditry, kidnapping and other insecurity issues bedviling the growth and development of the country. He gave this advice during Channels TV at Politics Today monitored by Vanguard on Friday. His words; “First and foremost, I’ll differentiate categorically the difference between agitation of the South-South and the banditry. “I don’t subscribe to the fact that because you’re idle or you’ve no job and you take to crimes. There are a lot of works to be done. Please, if you can’t do anything, go and farm. There are several menial jobs out there that can engage. Crime isn’t an excuse for joblessness. “Having differentiated between the South-South that’s given amnesty and the banditry, I’ll go this way that, majority of those that are being peddled as criminals or bandits today are Fulani herdsmen. These people are known for rearing cattles and keeping livestock; that’s the business.” Vanguard News Nigeria As he always says, “Na God win”. He dedicates it to the Almighty God who is the Chief Protector of the Kogi people. He dedicates it to the good people of Kogi State. He dedicates it to the law enforcement agencies who work day and night to protect the people… February 8, 2017 In "Interview" By Johnbosco Agbakwuru GOVERNOR Yahaya Bello of Kogi State has told the Catholic Bishops that it was only those that looted the nation's treasury and those that carried the country's money with Jet to South Africa that were angry with the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari. The governor also said… February 9, 2018 In "News" By Omeiza Ajayi Former President, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo, has tasked the Kogi State Governor Alhaji Yahaya Bello on the need to sustain his current onslaught against criminality in the state. Obasanjo gave the charge on Sunday in Abuja at a closed-door meeting with the Kogi State governor. Chief Press Secretary CPS… February 28, 2021 In "News"