The GYB2PYB Youth Support Group has backed a statement made by Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State, of him not ready to take the COVID-19 vaccine. Recall Vanguard reported on Friday, March 5, how the Kogi governor reiterated his aversion to the COVID-19 pandemic during Channels TV at Politics Today, stating that he would not be taking the vaccine because he’s “hale and hearty”. Reacting, the Media Assistant to the Director General of GYB2PYB, Kelvin Oluseyi Eleta in a statement made available on Sunday, praised governor Bello for “standing by the side of truth in fight against the COVID-19”. The statement partly read; “Our stand remains that, the ‘not-enough’ vaccines of 3.92 million in volume, purchased for a population of over 200 million people, healthy citizens should not be a priority. Top government officials who are in good health conditions should not stand in chance of ordinary Nigerians battling to survive on hospital beds. If thousands of government officials both at the national, state, and local government levels are to take the vaccine FIRST; then what is the hope of an ordinary Nigerian? “Governor Bello has once again demonstrated to Nigerians how compassionate a leader should be towards the citizens. “Well and healthy individuals should not necessarily have to take the vaccine; since it lacks verifiable testimonies as to its capacity to curing or completely prevent the transmission of the deadly Virus. Why not save the limited vaccines for the sick battling to survive the pandemic?” In his remarks, the group’s Director General, Oladele John Nihi while commending the courage of governor Bello, noted that the latter is always “standing for what is right, and in turn, protecting the interest of the common Nigerians”. Vanguard News Nigeria Arogbonlo Israel GYB2PYB, a group of young Nigerians, has reacted and condemned comments made by the Chairman of Nigeria Governors' Forum, Kayode Fayemi over Kogi Governor Yahaya Bello's claim on COVID-19 vaccine that has stirred up a heated debate on the social media. The Governors' forum, Thursday, had said Governor… January 22, 2021 In "News" The Governor Yahaya Bello to President Yahaya Bello (GYB2PYB) Youth Support Group, has urged governor Yahaya Bello, to accept the call to contest for the office of the President of Nigeria in 2023, saying that he holds the key to unlocking the door to the foretold future of the youths. January 21, 2021 In "Politics" The Nigeria Governors' Forum, NGF, has said Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State is entitled to his opinion over the reality or otherwise of the COVID-19 pandemic and the purpose of the vaccines, but that he should not risk the lives of the citizens of his state. January 21, 2021 In "Politics"