Twenty-eight year old Ogbonnia Paul Chukwudi met his waterloo as his was arrested by security operatives after successfully impersonating as a soldiers for four years in Cross River State. The fake soldier from Ebonyi State has been impersonating for the past four years before his apprehension by NSCDC. Vanguard learned that the suspect was arrested by officers of the NSCDC at Igoli, Ogoja and handed over to the 130 Battalion who after preliminary investigation handed the fake officer to the 13 Brigade of the Nigerian Army. Speaking at the 13 Brigade Headquarters on Wednesday while handing over the fake soldier to the Police for prosecution, the Brigade Commander, Brigadier General MA Abdullahi said the suspect has been impersonating for the past 4 years. Brigadier General Abdullahi who spoke through Major SN Ikpeme said several items were recovered from the impersonator. He said: “During the course of investigation, it was revealed that the suspect has been presenting himself as a serving soldier for four years. “Items recovered from his residence at 7 stadium road, Igoli Ogoja includes camouflage t shirt, some of his pictures on military uniform, fake Military ID card, prescreening certificate of the Nigerian Army among others”, he said. He added that the suspect and the exhibits have been handed over to the police for further investigation. He requested for update from the police of the outcome of it’s investigation so as to update the Brigade’s crime record. The assistant Police Public Relations Officer ,ASP Ewa Igiri who received the suspect and exhibits said further investigations will be carried out and the suspect prosecuted accordingly. Ogbonnia Paul, the suspect told journalist that the uniform belonged to his father adding that this was the highest mistake if his life .  By Festus Ahon - Asaba The 63 Brigade of Nigerian Army, Asaba, Delta State weekend, said it has arrested three fake soldiers, including a  43 years old woman in the State State capital and Warri during a routine patrol. The Brigade in a statement by its Assistant Director Army Public… May 31, 2020 In "News" By Akpokona Omafuaire MEN of the Nigeria Police Force, Ekpan Divisional Headquarters in Uvwie Local Government Area of Delta State have arrested a fake Soldier who parades himself as a "Major" with the Nigerian Army. The fake soldier was arrested along Refinery road near Ekpan Police Station on Saturday, March… April 16, 2019 In "News" Joint Task Force (JTF), Operation Pulo Shield, Sector 3 of the 13 Brigade Nigerian Army, on Wednesday destroyed 10,000 drums used for lifting illegal diesel product in Cross River. December 27, 2012 In "News"