As the country undergoes serious security challenges bedeviling its economy, President Muhammadu Buhari, Friday charged the newly promoted service chiefs to do everything within their powers to ensure the security of lives and properties of Nigerian. Speaking while decorating them, Buhari asked them to deliver the country, noting that they have a short period of time to do so. In a statement signed by the Special Adviser to Mr President on Media and Publicity, Buhari opined:  “During our four-hour security meeting, on Tuesday, I had taken the responsibility as Commander-in-Chief for you to go out into the field and secure the country. “You have got a few weeks to do that because by the rainy season, we expect people to develop confidence and go back to the land, so that we don’t get into trouble by being away from the field and therefore unable to produce enough food for the nation.” He told the service chiefs to see their appointment, clearance and decoration as a vote of confidence on them. “For those (of you) that have been confirmed by this ceremony, the decoration, in front of your spouses, is a further confidence loudly expressed on you on behalf of the nation, to respond to the insecurity the country is in,  and the nation looks up to you  for rapid relief.” He assured them of his firm support as they deliver on their responsibilities. “I have accepted responsibility for your actions in the field; it’s up to you to identify your competent officers irrespective of seniority and paper qualification and deploy them to make sure that we secure this country. “We all look forward to you to perform and I as the Commander-in- Chief, I am backing you hundred per cent, and I expect you to effectively deploy your officers and men to secure the country,” the President said. Responding on behalf of the other service chiefs, the Chief of Defence Staff, General Lucky Irabor assured the President that they will not fail in their responsibilities as the mandate is clear. “Nigeria will have peace again. Based on the mandate, we will address all issues, working with all other security organisations,” he said. Others decorated are Lieutenant General Ibrahim Attahiru as Chief of Army Staff, Vice Admiral Awwal Gambo as Chief of Naval Staff and Air Marshal Isiaka Amao as Chief of Air Staff. See photos from the event HERE. Vanguard News Nigeria PEEVED by the continuous killings of Nigerians by armed bandits across the country, some Civil Society Organizations in the country have called on the National Assembly not to accede to the request for release of more funds by service chiefs. May 26, 2018 In "News" ...Sack service chiefs now - Senate …Notes 67, not 43 farmers killed …ACF, Afenifere, Ohanaeze, CNG back Senate …Service chiefs’ll remain as long as Buhari is satisfied with them — Garba Shehu …Uproar in House of Reps over resolution to invite Buhari to explain insecurity …Invitation not necessary — Gbajabiamila,… December 2, 2020 In "News" Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, has said that the state of insecurity in the country has reached the tipping point. He spoke shortly after a closed-door meeting President Muhammadu Buhari had with him and Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, over the worsening security situation in the country. This… February 4, 2020 In "News"