Barely two months after a fuel-laden tanker fell and exploded on Oshodi-Apapa Expressway, another tanker belonging to Mrs on Friday, fell on the road thereby causing traffic gridlock in the axis. Details of the incident which occurred in the evening were sketchy at press time though a multi-team of responders like the Nigeria Police, Lagos State Traffic Management Agency LASTMA, alongside Lagos State Emergency Management Agency LASEMA, were on ground for recovery operation. Scores of road users were stranded in the axis due to the impact of the incident. Confirming the incident, LASEMA Director-General, Dr. Olufemi Oke-Osanyintolu advised road users to be patient pending the time the recovery operation will be completed. As at the time of this report, traffic has been diverted on both sides of the road to facilitate the recovery and evacuation of the tanker. The Director-General advised motorists that are Mile 2 bound from Oshodi to connect their destination through International Airport Road while those that are Oshodi bound are to make use of Daleko to Oye to Palm Avenue to Agege Motor Road to Oshodi in order to connect their destination. To make the journey easier, he said, “road users can connect Agege Motor Road to Ilupeju Bypass to Town Planning and connect their destination or
Daleko to Lagos State Polytechnic to Aye to Osolo Road to 7&8 to International Airport Road and continue their journey,’ Similarly, he said, “motorists from Mile 2 to Iyana Isolo inwards Oshodi can use service lanes by Apakun inwards Charity and continue with their journey.
Police, LASTMA alongside LASEMA are on the scene managing the situation to reduce delays and prevent secondary incident,” Recall that a tanker fully loaded with Premium Motor Spirit exploded on Thursday, January 7, at Toyota Bus stop, Oshodi-Apapa Expressway in Lagos. The tanker fell on the road at about 9.15 am spilling its content and eventually exploding in front of the Lagos State Fire Service on the Oshodi-Apapa expressway. Vanguard News Nigeria What could have resulted to a major disaster was, Monday, averted in Lagos when a truck laden with 33,000 litres diesel went up in flames at Toyota junction in Ladipo area of Oshodi/ Apapa expressway, Lagos. April 24, 2017 In "News" A major disaster was averted, yesterday, evening at the popular Toyota Junction along Oshodi-Apapa Expressway, Lagos, when a truck laden with 33,000 litres diesel went up in flames. April 25, 2017 In "News" By Evelyn Usman A tanker loaded with combustive substance exploded at the early hours of yesterday, at Mile 2, along the Oshodi/Apapa Expressway, destroying at least 10 vehicles in the resultant inferno. Several persons sustained varying degrees of burns and injuries in the ensuing stampede, while goods worth several millions… October 29, 2020 In "News"