THE Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, Tuesday, fixed Saturday, April 10 for the conduct of a by-election to fill the vacant seat for Isoko North State Constituency of Delta State. The Commission in a statement by its  National Commissioner and Chairman, Information and Voter Education Commission of INEC, Mr Festus Okoye, said the official notification of the election would be published Wednesday, March 10. Okoye in the statement, which was obtained from the Commission’s Twitter handle, said: “The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) met on Tuesday 9th March 2021 and deliberated on a number of issues including the conduct of bye-election into the vacant seat of Isoko North State Constituency of Delta State. “The vacancy arose as a result of the death of Hon Tim Kome Owhefere, member representing Isoko North State Constituency of Delta State in the House of Assembly and the subsequent declaration of vacancy for the State Constituency by the Delta State House of Assembly. “Consequently, the Commission has fixed Saturday 10th April 2021 for the conduct of the bye-election to fill the vacant seat for the Isoko North State Constituency of Delta State. “The official notification for the election will be published on Wednesday 10th March 2021. Political Parties shall conduct their primaries between 11th and 20th March 2021 while the last day for submission of the list of nominated candidates is at 6 pm on the 24th March 2021. “Political Parties shall submit the names of their Polling Agents for the election to the Electoral Officer of the Local Government on or before 27th March 2021 and campaigns by Political parties shall stop on 8th April 2021. “The Access Code for the nomination forms shall be available for collection from 20th March 2021 at the Commission’s headquarters. “Political parties fielding candidates for the bye-election should pay close attention to the Timetable and Schedule of Activities for the conduct of the bye-election and to conduct transparent and valid party primaries in line with the dictates of Section 87 of the Electoral Act 2010 [As amended). “We enjoin political parties to note that under section 31(8) of the Electoral Act, a political party which presents to the Commission the name of a candidate who does not meet the qualifications stipulated in the Constitution and the Electoral Act shall be guilty of an offence and on conviction shall be liable to a maximum fine of N500, 000.00 “The detailed Timetable and Schedule of activities has been uploaded on the Commission’s website and social media platforms. Recall that Mr Tim Kome Owhefere, who breathed his last on the 27th of January, was the Majority Leader of the House until his death. Vanguard News Nigeria By Omeiza Ajayi The Independent National Electoral Commission INEC has fixed Saturday April 10 for the conduct of election into the Isoko North State Constituency of Delta State. INEC had met on Tuesday and deliberated on a number of issues including the conduct of bye-election into the vacant state constituency… March 9, 2021 In "News" ASABA—A Federal High Court sitting in Warri, Delta State, has ordered the restoration of Ughelli South constituency 1 and Isoko North constituency 1, suspended by Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC. November 7, 2014 In "News" ASABA—Journalists were yesterday locked out by officials of the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, preventing them from covering the presentation of certificates of return to those elected into the Delta State House of Assembly in the April 11 state Houses of Assembly election. April 30, 2015 In "News"