Erling Braut Haaland scored twice as Borussia Dortmund held off a late Sevilla fightback to reach the Champions League quarter-finals with a ‘crazy, amazing’ 5-4 aggregate win after a frantic 2-2 second-leg draw on Tuesday. Haaland, who also netted a double in Dortmund’s 3-2 last 16 first-leg victory, tapped in a first-half opener and scored a retaken penalty after the break behind closed doors at Signal Iduna Park. “It was a hard game –- I’m tired now, but to be in the next round feels very good,” Haaland told Sky. “It was a crazy game and a crazy, amazing win.” Sevilla forward Youssef En-Nesyri scored a 69th-minute spot-kick and a last-gasp equaliser but Dortmund clung on. “We’re not happy with the result. Truth is, we didn’t have any luck –- they had one chance and they scored,” En-Nesyri told Movistar. “We fought until the last minute.” Haaland, the man of the match, is the competition’s top-scorer this season with 10 goals in six games. The 20-year-old is the youngest player to reach 20 Champions League goals, in just 14 appearances, breaking the previous mark set by Kylian Mbappe. “We have been punished by a player (Haaland) who will make his mark on this era,” predicted Sevilla coach Julen Lopetegui. Although they had lost three of their four previous games, Sevilla dominated the opening exchanges and Dortmund had to withstand intense early pressure before taking the lead against the run of play. When the Spaniards lost possession in their own half, Dortmund midfielder Mahmoud Dahoud slipped a pass to Marco Reus, who sprinted to reach the ball at the byline and Haaland diverted in his cut-back. – ‘Turbulent’ finish –
He had the ball in the net again just after the interval, but the goal was disallowed after the referee decided Haaland had fouled Sevilla defender Fernando before firing home from a tight angle after consulting the pitchside monitor. However, the referee also awarded a penalty after spotting a foul on Haaland earlier in the build-up. Reus, Dortmund’s usual penalty taker, stepped aside to allow Haaland to take the spot-kick. Although his first effort was tipped onto the post by Yassine Bounou, the Sevilla goalkeeper moved before the kick was taken and Haaland made no mistake with his second attempt. Both Haaland and Sevilla midfielder Joan Jordan were booked for some pushing and shoving, with the La Liga side angered by Haaland’s celebrations. “I missed the first penalty, but if he’d stood on the line I’d have scored, but he cheated,” added Haaland. “I was a little bit nervous on the second penalty, but I knew it would be nice to score a second goal.” Dortmund defender Emre Can also earned a yellow card and gave away a penalty for a blatant push on Sevilla forward Luuk de Jong, which Morocco striker En-Nesyri blasted home. With five minutes left, Bounou produced a stunning reflex save from Dahoud’s shot in the area. However, Sevilla were not finished and En-Nesyri netted again with a powerful header just before the final whistle as Dortmund weathered a late storm. “It was a turbulent game,” said Dortmund caretaker coach Edin Terzic. “It’s not a given for us to get this far, so now to be among the best eight in Europe makes us very happy. Erling Haaland was just outstanding.” Vanguard News Nigeria At just 21, Kylian Mbappe is already a World Cup winner while at only 19, Erling Braut Haaland has emerged as a fast-rising star this season. As Cristiano Ronaldo and Lionel Messi approach the end of their careers, could Mbappe and Haaland be the next duo to dominate football? Here,… February 17, 2020 In "Sports" Borussia Dortmund coach Lucien Favre says how his team defend against Paris Saint-Germain stars such as Neymar and Kylian Mbappe will be the deciding factor in Tuesday's Champions League clash. Dortmund host PSG in the last 16, first leg at Signal Iduna Park with Neymar expected to return after missing… February 17, 2020 In "Sports" Packed with passionate home fans, Borussia Dortmund's imposing south stand - dubbed 'The Yellow Wall' - is the 'gigantic monster' lurking to test Paris Saint-Germain stars like Neymar and Kylian Mbappe in the Champions League on Tuesday. "It's just a fantastic feeling that I haven't had before," is how Dortmund's… February 16, 2020 In "Sports"