As world marks the International Women’s Day today,  the United Nations Children’s Fund, UNICEF on Monday warned that with 25 million child marriages averted in the last decade,  10 million additional child marriages may occur before the end of the decade. UNICEF in a new Analysis  released today, also alerted that the situation was threatening years of progress in reducing the practice of child marriage. The report tagged: “COVID-19 A Threat to Progress against child marriage”  further warned that school closures, economic stress, service disruptions, pregnancy, and parental deaths due to the pandemic are putting the most vulnerable girls at increased risk of child marriage. “Even before the COVID-19 outbreak, 100 million girls were at risk of child marriage in the next decade, despite significant reductions in several countries in recent years. In the last ten years, the proportion of young women globally who were married as children had decreased by 15 per cent, from nearly 1 in 4 to 1 in 5, the equivalent of some 25 million marriages averted, a gain that is now under threat.” Reacting to the report, UNICEF Executive Director,  Henrietta Fore, said: “COVID-19 has made an already difficult situation for millions of girls even worse. Shuttered schools, isolation from friends and support networks, and rising poverty have added fuel to a fire the world was already struggling to put out. But we can and we must extinguish child marriage. “International Women’s Day is a key moment to remind ourselves of what these girls have to lose if we do not act urgently – their education, their health, and their futures.” The report also noted that Girls who marry in childhood face immediate and lifelong consequences. They are more likely to experience domestic violence and less likely to remain in school. Child marriage increases the risk of early and unplanned pregnancy, in turn increasing the risk of maternal complications and mortality. The practice can also isolate girls from family and friends and exclude them from participating in their communities, taking a heavy toll on their mental health and well-being. “COVID-19 is profoundly affecting the lives of girls. Pandemic-related travel restrictions and physical distancing make it difficult for girls to access the health care, social services and community support that protect them from child marriage, unwanted pregnancy and gender-based violence. “As schools remain closed, girls are more likely to drop out of education and not return. Job losses and increased economic insecurity may also force families to marry their daughters to ease financial burdens'” the report noted. Worldwide, an estimated 650 million girls and women alive today were married in childhood, with about half of those occurring in Bangladesh, Brazil, Ethiopia, India and Nigeria. To off-set the impacts of COVID-19 and end the practice by 2030 – the target set out in the Sustainable Development Goals – progress must be significantly accelerated. Fore further stressed that one year into the pandemic, immediate action was needed to mitigate the toll on girls and their families “By reopening schools, implementing effective laws and policies, ensuring access to health and social services – including sexual and reproductive health services – and providing comprehensive social protection measures for families, we can significantly reduce a girl’s risk of having her childhood stolen through child marriage,” Fore added. Vanguard News Nigeria Today, November 20 is the World Children's Day. There is no doubt 2020 World Children’s Day celebration is indeed a time to draw the attention of the world to what the harmful coronavirus pandemic has caused the rights of the child. When children do not have the opportunity to reach… November 20, 2020 In "News" An estimated 12 million girls under 18 years of age are getting married every year globally, according to new data from UNICEF released on Tuesday. March 6, 2018 In "News" ABUJA-THE United Nation's Children Fund,has urged Nigeria to seize the current moment to vaccinate children or risk them to what it called "uncertain future and possibly dire health prospects." July 17, 2020 In "News"