The Minister of Women Affairs, Mrs Pauline Tallen, has called for the  support of prominent Nigerians to encourage  womenfolk in political participation in the country. Talllen made the call on Monday in Abuja  during an interactive session, between the United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS) Executive Director, Ms Winnie Byanyima and women leaders in Nigeria. She said that women would continue to fight for their rights until things changed for better through their political and elective offices. “I am encouraging the young ones, we must do something deliberate to change the status quo, we must put aside personal interests and follow the objective.  “I salute all the women leaders present here for their doggedness and resilience, we will not rest on our oars, we will continue to fight for our right till we achieve our desires,” she stressed. Similarly, the former Minister of Education, Mrs Oby Ezekwesili, who decried the low rate of women participation in politics, also urged the women to rise to the challenge.  She said  the key thing that would help to increase women participation in politics was for them to continue seeking knowledge, urging them to go for knowledge to increase their chances.   “There is need to change the narrative completely, women must increase their political influence, many of our women think leadership only belongs to the men folks, this is wrong.  “It is about time we wake up from our slumber and get fully involved,” Ezekwesili stressed.  Speaking also, the wife of Ekiti State Governor, Mrs Bisi Fayemi, stated that Ekiti had done a lot to promote the right of women amongst which was  the sponsor of four bills that centred on the right of women.  She said  the country’s institutions must be strengthened to ensure that voices of the women are heard in terms of seeking their rights.  According to Fayemi, women must continue to engage in main stream politics if they must make their voices heard .  On her part, the UNAIDS executive director  urged women to constantly look after their health, noting that was the only way to guarantee their active participation in politics.  According to her,  women are so precious to the extent that they play some major roles in the home front and the society at large.  She said  the survival of the family rests on the women, saying that they must fight for the autonomy of power and be represented in politics.  “Women are called upon to cater for the family, to put the family together, to keep the family going, we can also help to keep the society together and keep it going, we need women like men in  the political structure,” she said.   …Panelists hail Kwara model for women empowerment Mainstreaming gender inclusion in governance requires institutional and legal reforms as well as deliberate efforts by political leaders to give women a fair chance to contribute their quota to development, according to panelists at the 1st Kwara State Gender Conference held on Thursday.… October 1, 2020 In "News" The Minister of Women Affairs, Dame Pauline Tallen, on Friday, pledged the commitment of the Federal Government to step up efforts to include women in conflict resolution processes and peacebuilding. Tallen said this during the National inauguration of Women in Humanitarian Response in Nigeria Initiative in Abuja. Represented by the… September 13, 2019 In "News" Minister of Women Affairs, Dame Pauline Tallen, has challenged women in the Nigerian oil and gas industry to strive towards the effective discharge of their duties to ensure they remain relevant and make meaningful impact in the industry. November 14, 2019 In "Trending"