PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari’s Chief of Staff, Professor Ibrahim Gambari, on Monday received the  Oxford/AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine. Recall that some frontline health workers, President Buhari and Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo, received theirs on Friday and Saturday respectively. The public vaccination is to reassure Nigerians of the safety and the efficacy of the vaccines. He was given the jab at exactly 10:28 am after e-registration and filling out of their vaccination card and sat for 15 minutes according to the routine of vaccination. He was later presented with vaccination card by the Chief Medical Director of the State House Medical Centre, Dr. Husain Munir. The former military administrator of Lagos and Borno state, and Chairman/CEO of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA), Gen. Mohammed Buba Marwa (retd), also received his jab at 10:39am while the Permanent Secretary of the State House, Tijjani Umar, received his at 10:11:43am, while the the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, received his at 10:41am, while Dr. Munir handed them their vaccination card. They were all given the vaccine by Chief Nursing Officer of the State House Clinic, Esther Ibrahim. In his remarks, Gambari said the vaccination was painless and that he followed the foot steps of president Buhari who demonstrated leadership alongside his deputy receiving the jabs on Saturday. He advised eligible Nigerians to take the vaccines assuring that its safe. He added that the more Nigerians are vaccinated the more we are safe. Marwa, said the vaccine is painless and he feels good. He congratulated Nigerians that the vaccines are now in Nigeria, he urged Nigerian to take the vaccine stressing that soon the country will be COVID-19 free. Recall that the Federal Government had on Saturday hinted that getting COVID-19 vaccination could become a requirement for all international passengers as the fight against the killer infection gathers steam. The Chairman of the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19, Mr. Boss Mustapha, said some countries have already started introducing restrictions for receiving visitors. Vanguard News Nigeria President Muhammadu Buhari and Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo on Saturday received the COVID-19 vaccine publicly at the Presidential Villa. March 6, 2021 In "Coronavirus Updates" By Johnbosco Agbakwuru with agency reports President Muhammadu Buhari, yesterday, urged Nigerians to get Covid-19 vaccination “so that we can be protected from the virus.” Speaking after he had received the jab, the President said, “I have received my first jab and I wish to recommend it to all eligible… March 7, 2021 In "Health" …Says Buhari, Osinbajo’ll be vaccinated tomorrow National Primary Health Care Development Agency, NPHCDA, said, yesterday, that states yet to meet the criteria for COVID-19 vaccines would not get a share of the 3.92 million AstraZeneca vaccines received by the country on Tuesday. Executive Director of the agency, Dr Faisal Shuaib,… March 5, 2021 In "Health"