Microsoft has said a state-sponsored hacking group operating out of China is exploiting previously unknown security flaws in its Exchange email services to steal data from business users. The company said the hacking group, which it has named “Hafnium”, is a “highly skilled and sophisticated actor”. Hafnium has in the past targeted US-based companies including infectious disease researchers, law firms, universities, defence contractors, think tanks and NGOs. In a blog post on Tuesday, Microsoft executive Tom Burt said the company had released updates to fix the security flaws, which apply to on-premises versions of the software rather than cloud-based versions, and urged customers to apply them. “We know that many nation-state actors and criminal groups will move quickly to take advantage of any unpatched systems,” he added. “Promptly applying today’s patches is the best protection against this attack.” Microsoft said the group was based in China but operated through leased virtual private servers in the United States, and that it had briefed the US government. Beijing has previously hit back at US accusations of state-sponsored cybertheft. Last year it accused Washington of smears following allegations that Chinese hackers were attempting to steal coronavirus research. In January, US intelligence and law enforcement agencies said Russia was probably behind a massive SolarWinds hack that shook the government and corporate security, contradicting then-president Donald Trump who had suggested China could be to blame. Microsoft said Tuesday the Hafnium attacks “were in no way connected to the separate SolarWinds-related attacks.” [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria Microsoft has disabled dozens of websites that North Korean hackers used to steal personal information from Americans and others, the tech giant said. A federal court order allowed Microsoft to take control of 50 domains that a hacker group known as “Thallium” used to launch cyberattacks on government workers, university… January 2, 2020 In "Technology" THE deadly ransomware virus that hit no fewer than 150 countries across the globe at the weekend is spreading panic around the world, causing widespread damage. May 17, 2017 In "News" Google said Thursday it blocked YouTube channels and other accounts over a misinformation campaign linked to Iran, on the heels of similar moves by Facebook and Twitter. August 23, 2018 In "News"