PRESIDENT of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, yesterday raised the alarm drug barons are responsible for the funding of terrorists, which explains why Boko Haram insurgents, armed bandits and kidnappers with arms and ammunition undertake criminal activities in the country. According to Lawan, the sponsor is responsible for why insecurity and criminality are increasing in the country, adding that such drug barons who engage in trafficking heroin, cannabis and cocaine have made Nigeria a major transit route for plying the illicit trade, which Speaking yesterday in Abuja when the Chairman of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA), Brigadier-General Buba Marwa (Rtd), paid a visit to his office, Lawan called for the restructuring of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA), so as to further empower it to rise to the occasion of clamping down on the criminal activities of drug traffickers operating in the country. The President of the Senate who assured that the National Assembly would support the agency in the aspect of amending the NDLEA Act with a view to enabling the agency to achieve its core mandates said: “The National Assembly members are almost on daily interaction with our constituents and we know the very debilitating impact of drug abuse in our various communities. “You have rightly said that almost every community in this country suffers from drug addiction. So, we are very mindful of what is happening. “I believe that this agency needs restructuring. Now that you have taken over, we should go the whole haul to restructure the agency, not piecemeal touches, because we need to get it right. “My personal opinion is that NDLEA should be in the league of EFCC, ICPC, and therefore, the kind of support that those two agencies I mentioned receive, you should receive something like that, in addition to many other things that you should be supported with. “So, the National Assembly will definitely work with you, we will partner with you, and will ensure that we do our best to give you the kind of support that will enable you properly to discharge your mandate. “Having said this, let me say that Nigeria as a country is in one way or the other a transit route for drugs. “Drug peddlers pass their drugs through Nigeria – cannabis, heroin and possibly even cocaine. “We believe that this has to stop because the proceeds of such activities fund terrorism, they fund banditry, you wonder how the bandits have RPGs and these massive arms that they have. “Definitely, these are some acquisition provided by some barons, not the bandits themselves. “So, we need to ensure that this transit role that Nigerians plays is addressed properly. And here we have to approach this through multi-sectoral efforts – the Customs, Immigration Service, our Security Agencies, and in fact, the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN), and our seaports. “Of course, this is not going to be easy, but we have to be steadfast and we should do whatever is possible without the limited resources we have to make you better.” Speaking on the drug addiction rate in Nigeria, Lawan underscored the need for multi-dimensional efforts across the various agencies of governments aimed at tackling underlying causes such as illiteracy, unemployment and poverty, responsible for the exposure of youths to criminal tendencies. The President of the Senate who also advocated for the inclusion of Drug Education in the curricular for schools and institutions of learning in Nigeria, said, “We also believe that the drug addiction level in Nigeria is so bad that we are losing our youths to drug addiction. Like you have mentioned, the terrorists, the insurgents, the bandits and almost all the criminals have recourse to taking drugs to enhance their courage in order to undertake their illicit activities. “So, there then is the need for us to step up our work on preventing our youths from taking the drugs, and that requires a lot of multi-dimensional efforts, because some may be due to lack of employment, some illiteracy, and poverty generally. “These are some of the root causes. Somebody out of frustration is recruited to join. And, therefore, this is also something that the National Assembly has been trying hard to ensure that the economy of Nigeria provides for everyone – that we have an all-inclusive economy bringing up those who are down. “And I believe that this is one way that we have to continue to deal with this scourge. I also believe that we have to go on advocacy to our schools and institutions, and why not, even include in our curricular the issue of drugs, so that right from primary school up to secondary school level, our students should be able to understand the dangers of taking drugs. “I believe that this is one incentive to criminality like you have just pointed out, so it is a huge responsibility placed on your shoulders, but you are not going to walk it alone, we are going to walk it with you. “I want to urge you, that you get across to other agencies of government – like the immigration service, customs, airports authority, DSS – and the decay that you might have found is probably because the agency has not been able to have a better structure that will enable it to fight drug trafficking and even addiction of the 21st century.” Earlier in his remarks, the Chairman of the NDLEA, Buba Marwa who noted that the Ninth Senate under the leadership of Senator Ahmad Lawan has “displayed great interest, competence, support and effort” on the review of the NDLEA Act, said, “This is a very important step to correct some of the lapses in an Act that was promulgated way back in 1989.” According to Marwa, the visit was intended to “call for urgent intervention from the Senate President”, warning that, “Nigeria is in a state of siege today.” Marwa raised the alarm that the drug addiction scourge was largely responsible for acts of criminalities that have pervaded all parts of the country, and the outcome witnessed in the spate of insecurity lately. He lamented: “Yes, you have insurgency, banditry and kidnapping, but if you go to Ogoni to speak to somebody about the insurgency, he might not be concerned. “If you go to some other parts of the country and speak of kidnapping in some areas, it’s not a major concern. If you go to some other areas and speak of banditry, it may not be of major concern. “But when you enter the realm of drug abuse, every part of Nigeria, you can for sure say that everybody in this room knows somebody or a neighbour or family that has affliction with drug abuse. “The drug affliction is actually the number one problem we are facing, it is everywhere.” “First of all, it destroys our kids, women, our youths, and the family system. Secondly, it is behind the criminalities everywhere now. “You have to be crazy to commit some of these criminalities, and what fuels it is drug abuse. Even the insurgents and bandits themselves, they take drugs before they go into their activities.” Vanguard News Nigeria …Say it’ll take over 100 years for North to recover from destruction …Vow to mobilise South against APC in 2023, if... …Hail appointment of ex-Lagos MILAD, Marwa as NDLEA chair …Note appointment will help tackle the drug abuse problem in region …Insecurity is being reversed, armed forces doing better —… January 20, 2021 In "News" Gusau—The Theatre Command of Operation Hadarin Daji, Major-General Jide Ogunlade, has said that terrorists and jihadists have infiltrated bandits operating in Zamfara State. June 26, 2019 In "News" A bill seeking to amend the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) law to check the incidence of light sentencing for drug offenders, has passed second reading in the Senate. This followed the presentation of the lead debate on the general principles of the bill by the sponsor, Sen. Dimka… February 17, 2021 In "News"