Former National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Abubakar Kawu Baraje, has said that the Fulani herdsmen accused of wreaking havoc across the country are not Nigerians. Baraje reiterated this claim contrary to what was credited to him in an interview he granted during his 70th birthday celebrations in Ilorin. Speaking in an interview with journalists in ilorin, he said his belief came from the fact that Nigerian Fulanis have been living in communities around the country without problems. Baraje added that with the way they have acculturated into the various communities they could not be responsible for this level of criminality. He said,“I know some mischievous elements who probably have political points to score have been spreading false versions of my statements to the journalists during the chat I had on my 70th birthday. “All these false claims would not change my original position that the government and our security agencies must investigate the infiltration of our country by foreign criminal elements who masquerade as Fulani herders. “The Fulanis involved in criminal activities are not Nigerians. The Fulani herdsmen in Nigeria do not carry guns. They only have matchete used to clear the bush as they progress with their cows and a stick to direct the animals. “Those who carry arms are mere criminals who exploited the porosity of our borders and came in without cattle. “To disguise their intention, they first began with cattle rustling in the North-West to acquire cows and assume the status of herdsmen. This went on for some time in the North. It is now that they spread their nefarious activities to the South that the awareness and condemnation became very prominent and loud. “This is all I told the journalists and this remains my analysis of the situation. I believe it is my contribution to the conversation on how we can solve this security crisis. We must interrogate all the points I and many others have raised because security matter concerns all of us. We must not play politics with it “I have decided to reinstate this position so as not to leave anybody in doubt as to what I said during the chat with the media. Just as I cautioned that we should not play politics with security, the mischief-makers, using a section of the media to spread falsehood about my position should stop”, Baraje said Vanguard News Nigeria By Ibrahim HassanWuyo The Arewa Consultative Forum, ACF, has expressed delight that Governor Bello Matawalle of Zamfara state has started exposing those collaborating with bandits in the state. About a week ago, the Arewa Consultative Forum, issued a press release calling on the governor, Bello Mutawale, to name the people… March 8, 2021 In "News" Following reactions that greeted the formation of Southwest regional security organisation, codenamed Amotekun, a Fulani socio-cultural organisation, Miyetti Allah, has alleged that the aim of forming the security outfit was to flush out the Fulani tribe from the region (Southwest.) February 10, 2020 In "News" By Demola Akinyemi Ilorin -Â  The ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP)Â  hasÂ  urged the ruling Action Congress (AC) party in Lagos State to obey the constitution and the supreme court judgment andÂ  revert to the status quo ante just as the party accused the elites of inciting the state against… August 16, 2009 In "News"