The ruling All Progressives Congress APC has slammed the Peoples Democratic Party PDP for its lame attempt at returning to power in 2023, describing the opposition party’s ambition as ‘incredibly delusional’. National Secretary, Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee CECPC of the APC, Sen. John James Akpanudoedehe stated this on Tuesday in Abuja. The statement reads; “The All Progressives Congress (APC) has no intention to trade words with the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), its governors and leaders on the propriety of infrastructure projects undertaken by the current administration and which state deserves a federal government project. “From previously abandoned to new projects, under the President Muhammadu Buhari-led APC administration, every state of the federation, including the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) has an ongoing and major federal road and other critical infrastructure project. This is a fact and it is verifiable. “Following the gale of defections that has hit the PDP since the advent of the Governor Mai Mala Buni-led APC Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC), we hear the PDP is doing all it can and begging its members and leaders to remain in the PDP. We wish the PDP goodluck in its futile and desperate attempts. “Again, the APC laughs at the PDP’s meaningless comparison with the current administration and the early 2023 presidential campaigns of some PDP governors. Our focus is delivering on our popular mandate and multi-facet Next Level agenda for the country. For one, the President Buhari administration is implementing one of the world’s largest and wide-ranging social investment programme which is benefitting the vulnerable and has taken many Nigerians out of poverty. Commendably, we are well on course to delivering other aspects of the Next Level agenda. “The PDP is apparently deluding itself that its desperate cravings to return to power at the centre amounts to the wishes of Nigerians. This is incredibly delusional. It is important to remind the PDP that in a democracy and progressive politics, power is not “taken” but given through a popular mandate by the people. The current state of the PDP does not show the failed opposition party is anywhere close to earning such mandate from the electorate.” Vanguard News Nigeria THE major opposition party in Delta State, All Progressives Congress, APC, seems to be in disarray. It ought naught to be so. For now, the APC in Delta State lacks vibrancy and cohesion. October 19, 2020 In "Viewpoint" The People’s Democratic Party, PDP, has warned President Muhammadu Buhari not to dip hands in the N2.1 trillion pension funds to implement infrastructural projects in the country. December 21, 2019 In "News" The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ekiti State has faulted Governor Ayodele Fayose for declaring himself as agent of change for the state. October 27, 2016 In "News"