The Ebonyi state police Command, Tuesday detained a prostitute, Victoria Chukwube over an alleged plot to sell her baby boy for N40,000. The baby is four months old and still breastfeeding. Her reason was to raise fund to kick start a beer parlour business. Briefing Journalists at the command headquarters in Abakiliki, the Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Loveth Odah stated that the woman was arrested last Friday following a tip-off by a concerned citizen. “So her name is Chukwube Victoria, she actually told us that she is a commercial sex worker and that she has this babe which she is carrying. “She said that if she leaves here she should continue to look out for the prospective buyer. But we try to talk to her and to make her see the value of being a mother but she refused. “She even told us that if we allow her to go home with the baby she will throw him away and that she can’t tell who got her pregnant”, she explained. During interrogation, Miss Chukwube who refused to disclosed her state of origin or local government said she won’t have the financial muscle to take care of the child. “I’m from Nigeria, 32 years old, a commercial sex worker and my babe is just 4 months old. “I want to sale the babe at the rate of N40,000 to start up a business. I have a fridge and I reside at Ogbuhause in Abakiliki”, she explained. Vanguard News Nigeria By Arogbonlo Israel Victoria Chukwube, the 32-year-old lady who wants to sell her four-month-old baby boy for N40,000 in Ebonyi has revealed she slept with 15 different men without protection. Recall the Ebonyi Police Command recently arrested Chukwube while trying to sell her biological baby to raise money to start… February 24, 2021 In "News" The Police Command in Abia has arrested one Amarachi Chinedu, over her alleged involvement in the sale of a one-day-old baby boy in Aba. August 16, 2018 In "News" The Ebonyi State Command of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps, NSCDC recorded a major breakthrough in its operations last week, when a two-year old girl, Gift Adaobi who was allegedly sold by her grandmother (names withheld) was rescued alive. The rescue followed the arrest of four persons suspected… December 17, 2013 In "Metro"