FORMER Kano State governor, Senator Rabiu Kwankwanso on Tuesday underscored that governors, past and present, accord much respect to Governor Nyesom Wike for exceptional achievements in governance of Rivers state and rare boldness to speak truth to power. Kwankwanso, while commissioning Rivers State Government’s completed Rumuogba 1 and 2 Flyovers in Port Harcourt, on the invitation of Wike, also rated his host as having earned Nigerians’ mandate to “proceed for national assignment” after his governorship era. The former Defense Minister told Wike, “Governors today in this country, and those of us who have been Governors, especially from Northern part of this country, have a lot of respect for you. We love you and of course, we have several reasons for that. “One, you have been working around the clock to make Rivers a better place for everybody. We see your projects, programmes on the media. Sometimes we are being informed by our people resident here in the state. “We respect you, because most of the time you are on the ground here in Rivers taking care of the people of your state. Not all Governor’s can say the same. You work on the ground while many others with similar responsibility are in the sky. “We respect you for the way and manner you maintain peace in Rivers. We had cause to speak to those indigenous here and those from other parts of the state or regions of the country, especially the Arewa community. “I had series of meetings with the Arewa community before my arrival here and even when I came, I also had the opportunity to talk to them. And the feedback is to say thank you and keep on working, keep maintaining peace and order in Rivers. “Being governor is very serious, challenging assignment. It’s been a contract between you and your people for eight years. Now almost six years, it’s just two years left to be in the Government House, before you move forward for the national assignment. “Many times we have reasons to come to Rivers to go round and see for ourselves the rapid development taking place here in the state. I came yesterday and had the opportunity of going round. I’ve seen the positive changes you brought to the state since 2015. He further said, “For those of us, members of Kwankwansiyya Movement in this country, we also have a lot of respect for you. Though we rarely see you on the red cap, I am sure you have it in your mind because the way you do, say things shows you are no doubt a Kwankwansiyya. “You are somebody who says things the way they are, not minding what others may think or feel. Please keep on moving and I believe the sky is the limit with this attitude and commitment to service of your state and the nation.” Earlier on the occasion, Wike had reiterated that his administration, working in rapid infrastructures delivery as if it is his first tenure, would leave no project conceived under him uncompleted for his successor to handle. “In the next two weeks, Julius Berger will come back and sign a contract with us (Rivers Government) for building of a cancer and cardiovascular diseases center. It will be the best in this country and will be completed in 14 months. We would complete all projects we initiated”, Wike further disclosed. Vanguard News Nigeria In appreciation of his massive roll out of projects in Ijaw Local Government Areas, Rivers Ijaws have endorsed Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Ezenwo Wike for a second term. October 23, 2018 In "News" Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Ezenwo Wike has declared that he has absolute confidence and respect for the Judiciary to do justice in the state governorship legal tussle, pointing out that based on the April 11 election, his mandate would be upheld in the course of the Appeal process . October 31, 2015 In "News" Authorities of the Nigeria Police Force have distanced themselves from the allegation by Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State, that the Police in the state have been given a mandate to execute him. April 10, 2017 In "News"