Oba of Lagos, Rilwan Akiolu, yesterday, gave an account of his loss during the #EndSARS protests, which was hijacked by hoodlums on October, last year, disclosing that the hoodlums who invaded his palace, carting  away his staff of office, also stole a sum of $2 million and N17 million, belonging to him. The monarch disclosed this while speaking at the official hand over of the remodeled Glover Memorial Hall, Customs Street, Lagos Island, by Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu. The remodelled Glover Memorial Hall was also touched during the protest. Oba Akiolu told the gathering that he was making it known publicly for the first time that #EndSARS protesters stole $2 million and N17 million in his palace. The monarch said: “I will support anything that will move Lagos forward. I have appealed to the Federal Government to assist Lagos with what we have suffered. The incident that happened here from October 20th to 23rd is so saddening. “The destruction we suffered in Lagos is so enormous than in any other part of the country. “Many buildings were burnt, including vehicles used to generate income. I can now say publicly that they stole away from my palace $2 million and N17 million. “Those who committed the offence would not have done that if they knew the implication. But as a father, I won’t place any curse on them.” In his remarks, Governor Sanwo-Olu said the completion and formal commissioning of the remodeled Glover Memorial Hall reflected government’s determination to rebuild Lagos, Vanguard News Nigeria …Tension, bonfires, attempted arson rock Abakaliki, as Umahi declares curfew in Ebonyi …Security operatives gun down three persons in Rivers …Police stations burnt in Imo l2 feared dead, as protest turns violent in Enugu …Policeman killed, another injured in Lagos Police stations’ attacks …Three banks, council set ablaze …Protesters raze… October 22, 2020 In "SARS Update" The Forum of Eko Princes and Princesses has condemned in very strong terms the attack, desecration and vandalisation of IGA IDUNGANRAN the Palace of the Oba of Lagos by hoodlums and criminal elements masquerading as aggrieved “ENDSARS” protesters. A statement signed by Prince Adewale Taorid Ojora on behalf of the… October 22, 2020 In "SARS Update" ...Say Public buildings should be guarded by armed security officers A group of concerned Lagosians have frowned against the recent destruction of property at the Lagos High Court, Igbosere, and Igbosere Magistrates' court, Lagos by hoodlums during the #EndSARS peaceful protests turned violent. In a communique signed by Mr. Lawal… November 5, 2020 In "News"