First Bank of Nigeria Limited    has announced the launch of First Global Transfer (FGT) to promote international transfer of funds across its subsidiaries in sub-Saharan Africa. The bank, in a statement, said: “First Global Transfer (FGT) initiative is specifically designed to ensure safe, timely and improved efficiency in the transfer of funds across the network of FirstBank subsidiaries in Africa. “The FGT is not restricted to FirstBank and FBNBank customers alone but it is also open to every individual resident in the country the funds transfer is originating from. “Intending users of the initiative are to visit any of the bank’s branches in Nigeria or subsidiaries in Africa, which are: FBNBank DRC, FBNBank Ghana, FBNBank Gambia, FBNBank Guinea, FBNBank Sierra-Leone, or FBNBank Senegal to enjoy the service. “For example, with First Global Transfer, individuals and customers in Sierra-Leone can walk into any FBNBank branch to send money to FirstBank customers in Nigeria as well as FBNBank customers in Gambia, Ghana, DR Congo, Senegal or Guinea.” Speaking on the initiative, Dr. Adesola Adeduntan, Chief Executive Officer, FirstBank said,   “today’s customer is influenced by the technological advancement shaping businesses across various industries and our First Global Transfer (FGT) initiative is one of those advancement created to impact every individual in our host community in Africa, whilst promoting the ease and swift transfer of money from one country to another for business or personal activities.” FIRST Bank of Nigeria Limited  said it has acquired the remaining shares in FBNBank DRC Limited (FBNBank DRC), making it FirstBank’s wholly owned subsidiary. October 2, 2017 In "Business" FirstBank Nigeria Plc has won MoneyGram’s Best African Receiving Agent Award for 2010, thus confirming its leadership in the nation’s financial services industry. April 24, 2011 In "Finance" First Bank of Nigeria Limited, in partnership with WorldRemit, an international online money transfer service provider, has launched a digital instant money transfer services to Nigeria. June 8, 2018 In "News"