There is tension in Kwara State, as Baptist Conference and Evangelical Church Winning All, ECWA, have told the state government that they would resist the wearing of the hijab (veil) in their schools by all legitimate means and also demanded the immediate return of their schools. Both Christian bodies, at different press conferences in Ilorin, the state capital, said they were not consulted before the decisions were taken. They stressed that the state government was ill-advised in approving blanket wearing of the hijab by female students in grant-aided mission schools in the state. Recall that following the controversy that trailed the wearing of hijab in grant-aided mission schools, the state government, last week, approved the wearing of hijab by female pupils of the schools. Baptist Speaking, President, Kwara Baptist Conference, Rev Victor Dada Baptist, said it had no fewer than 38 schools across the state. According to Rev Dada, “the state government was ill-advised in taking that decision. The state even acted in contempt of court as the case is still pending before the highest court in the land— Supreme Court. “We want to warn the government that the step it wants to take by approving the use of hijab for all public schools and grant-aided schools in the state will lead to avalanche of reactions, the end of which no one can predict. “By this move, the state government is saying the Moslems purported rights are superior to that of the Christians. “What we are saying is that no one, not the Kwara State government or even the Federal Government, can force hijab on our children or in our schools. “We shall not hesitate to use all legitimate means to protect our heritage. We will defend our faith and protect our property. “Baptist family waits for further instructions. In view of the foregoing, we request the return of all our schools back to us without further delay.” ECWA Similarly, Chairman, ECWA Ilorin District Church Council, Rev John Owoeye, said that “we demand the return of our schools to us in earnest. “Similarly, we want government to be informed that her decision and plan to provide hijab and enforce its use in our Christian mission grant-aided schools will not be tolerated. “For us, it is an infringement on our freedom of religion as enshrined in the constitution of Nigeria. “Moreover, we are saying that we refuse the enforcement of hijab on our pupils and students by the state government. “Our schools are church heritage and we shall use every licit means to protect it. We promise to defend our faith and property with the whole of our strength and might.” Vanguard News Nigeria By Demola Akinyemi Following the protests by Muslim students in Christian schools over their stoppage to use hijab, the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) has chosen the option of praying to God so as to have peaceful solutions to the controversy. Christians in Kwara State are making some key demands… February 22, 2021 In "News" By Demola Akinyemi Following the protests by muslim students in Christian schools over their stoppage to use hijab, the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) has chosen the option of praying to God so as to have peaceful solutions to the controversy. Christians in Kwara State are making some key demands… February 22, 2021 In "News" The face-off between Christian and Muslim leaders degenerated yesterday but the timely intervention of Oluwo of Iwoland, Oba Adewale Akanbi, saved what could have snowballed into major religious crisis as some Christian students of Baptist High School, Adeeke, Iwo for the second day appeared in church robes to attend classes… June 16, 2016 In "News"