Nasarawa State Commissioner of Information, Culture and Tourism, Dogo Shammah, has said that the achievements of Governor Abdullahi Sule and the pace for good governance set in Nasarawa state will speak for the APC led administration in 2023. The Information Commissioner said the ruling APC was on the right course, considering the monumental achievement and the lives changing projects executed in the state. According to the Commissioner, there was no cause to entertain fear about the opposition in 2023 adding that good governance has brought about a massive defection from the main opposition party and other political parties into APC. “Talking about 2023, we believe that the good governance we have provided through projects executed and the achievements of the Governor in Nasarawa will speak for us, we don’t have any opposition in the state, the recent massive defection that left the opposition parties was an affirmation of acceptability. “The dividends of democracy that our government has given to the electorate through various intervention will stand out for us, when the time comes, it is the people that will go out to campaign for us,” Dogo declared. On the ongoing APC registration and revalidation exercise, the commissioner lauded the party for the exercise, which he said would strength the party and pave way for new entrants. Commenting on the forthcoming local government election, the Commissioner said the State Independent Electoral Commission (NASIEC) has been empowered financially to conduct an election without interference from any quarters. “The election was shifted for obvious reasons, we didn’t dictate to them, we are a government that believes in due process, we would not stand against the rule of law,” he stated. Vanguard News Nigeria …Nigerians already stoning APC, only traitors ‘ll defect – PDP …CUPP challenges APC to shock Nigerians with massive human devt …Dying PDP pushing Nigeria into one-party state, APC laments …Focusing on me won’t solve problems FG, APC created – Atiku ..PDP members defecting to APC in order but...-Lamido, Sani …Any… November 27, 2020 In "News" …We 'll end opposition  2023 in Nasarawa - Gov. Sule By David Odama Former governor of Nasarawa State, Senator, Abdullahi Adamu has said that the second term of Governor Abdullahi Sule  is the only solution that would guarantee continuity and stability in the state. This is even as Governor Sule… January 14, 2021 In "News" AS the only zone in the South that is yet to produce the President since the return to democratic rule in 1999, the South-East is considered to have a good case in its quest to occupy the seat when President Muhammadu Buhari leaves office in 2023. November 22, 2020 In "News"