President Muhammedu Buhari on Thursday in Abuja met with Gov. Yahaya Bello of Kogi, where he enjoined all Nigerians to go about their lawful businesses as ”the country’s unity is not negotiable”. Speaking to State House correspondents at the end of the meeting, the governor said the president reiterated his position on keeping the nation united by all means, when he briefed him on the decision of the Amalgamated Union of Food and Cattle Dealers of Nigeria (AFUCDN) to call off its strike. Bello, who commended the efforts of the president toward addressing national challenges, said: ”Mr President expressed concern over the insecurity in the land. ”As the commander in chief, he has assured everyone of us based on his security meeting yesterday, that Nigeria is going to be secured, safe and prosperous, and I believe in him 100 per cent. “He urged everyone of us to continue to go about our lawful businesses in the country, that Nigeria’s unity is not negotiable, that Nigeria must be united, peaceful and that Nigeria must be prosperous.” The governor revealed that the president had pledged to look into the concerns raised by the union with a view to addressing them. According to him, the union is demanding that the various extortions that take place on the roads, by touts in most cases, be stopped. He said: ”I thank God, Mr President, has given directive to that effect, that all law enforcement agencies should ensure that traders should not be extorted on the road again. ”So, they are asking that extortions be stopped and also that those who killed their members be brought to justice. I don’t think they’re asking for too much. “Remember that the crisis was snowballing into a major national catastrophe whereby some other parts of this country were gearing up for reprisal attacks in this country and setting us up for crisis. ”Meanwhile, those who set up the crisis, that is what they want to achieve. “We can’t afford to allow this country to snowball into civil war again, not this time around. ”We are so much interwoven that we are inseparable, again, by marriage, by business investments, by politics and every other form of development. ”Nigeria is so much interwoven that we shouldn’t allow any few bad elements, however, lowly placed or however highly placed, come and divide us again, it is not possible.” The governor expressed optimism that the mistakes that led to the strike would not be repeated. Vanguard News Nigeria KOGI State Governor, Alhaji Yahaha Bello on Monday boasted that President Muhammadu Buhari who will fly the flag of the All Progressives Congress, APC, in the 2019 Presidential election will get overwhelming votes that will double the votes he got in 2015 election. September 17, 2018 In "Politics" By Johnbosco Agbakwuru GOVERNOR Yahaya Bello of Kogi State has told the Catholic Bishops that it was only those that looted the nation's treasury and those that carried the country's money with Jet to South Africa that were angry with the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari. The governor also said… February 9, 2018 In "News" Kogi State Governor, Alh. Yahaya Bello has expressed confidence that the performance of President Muhammadu Buhari will guarantee his re-election in 2019, saying the “real voters are behind the President”. April 15, 2018 In "News"