A law to commit medical doctors to jail sentences, for unethical practices, is underway in the House of Representatives. The piece of legislation, which is expected to be considered for passage this week, seeks to punish unethical referrals of patients by doctors to their colleagues in other hospitals, for material gains and without details of the patients’ conditions, as professionally required. The legislative tool, obtained exclusively by VANGUARD, is entitled “National Health Act, 2014(Amendment) Bill, 2020”, and sponsored by Rep. Enitan Dolapo-Badru. The proposed new subsections in the Principal Act, namely sections 17(3), 17(4), 17(5), state that “when a patient is referred to another doctor for treatment and same doctor, takes over the continuing care of the patient so referred, shall be guilty of an office and liable on conviction to find not less than N500,000.00 or imprisonment, not less than 6 months. “Referral to another medical practitioner must be done in a conscientious, professional and ethical manner, without any form of personal interest, gains, enticement and benefit”. The proposed law, also warns against the unethical prescription of drugs for patients at medical facilities. The bill states that “Any drug(s) prescribed to any patient by a medical personnel, shall include: “a detailed information on the drug(s), nature of the drug, the health condition/history of the patient, outline of possible side effects/reactions if any, by the drug; and the full details of the medical personnel who prescribed the drugs, the above must be in clear readable fonts”. The Bill also warns that: “A medical practice if guilty of subsection (3), shall be liable on conviction for a fine not less than N500,000 or imprisonment, not more than two years or to both such fine and imprisonment”. Vanguard News Nigeria In an uncommon combination of decades of immeasurable experience, both authors undertook a scholarly exposition of key ethical and legal issues in medical practice in Nigeria. The book is also a product of their work as chairman and Legal Assessor respectively, of the Nigerian Medical and Dental Practitioners Disciplinary Tribunal,… January 24, 2019 In "The Arts" LAGOS—The  Federal Government, yesterday, said it does not know if the lockdown of Lagos, Ogun and the Federal Capital Territory, FCT, ordered to check the spread of the Coronavirus pandemic would end in 14 days.. April 8, 2020 In "News" The Governor of Edo State, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, has pledged N25 million as intervention fund for the Edo State Sickle Cell Center, as part of efforts to reposition the facility for better service delivery. December 19, 2017 In "News"