IJAW people in Warri North Local Government Area, Delta State, were filled with joy, yesterday, as the first Ijaw chairmanship candidate of Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, in 27 years, Hon Smart Asekutu, visited Ogbudugbudu and other Ijaw areas in continuation of his campaign for the March 6 local government polls. Him Asekutu, a Senior Special Assistant to Governor Ifeanyi Okowa on Intelligence Gathering, was at Ogbudugbudu, Ogbinbiri, Ubroyinmen and Egjoro communities to campaign for votes. Elders, chiefs, women, youths and stakeholders of the respective wards, who were overjoyed that an Ijaw indigene finally got the ticket of the ruling PDP in 2021, trooped out to receive him, assuring him of their support. Some Ijaw women laid their wrappers on the ground for him to walk. The publicity secretary of the Campaign Committee, Hon Ezekiel Daniel, SSA, Security to Delta State governor, called on Warri North people “to massively vote for the flag bearer for it will bring more celebration.” ‘Let us continue to see ourselves as one and work together as one big family to achieve the purpose,” he pleaded. Vanguard News Nigeria The Delta State Chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on Wednesday presented flags to its chairmanship candidates and their deputies in the 25 local government areas for the March 6, 2021 council elections in the state. Speaking at the event held at the party’s Secretariat in Asaba, Chairman of… February 10, 2021 In "News" Though, the issue at stake was a larger Niger-Delta problem, he applied some diplomacy and pragmatism that brought the situation under control in his state. It took another two years, that is 2009, for the Federal Government, under the leadership of the late President Umaru Yar’Adua to see the wisdom… November 2, 2010 In "Politics" WARRI— POLITICAL intrigues in Warri, Delta State, over the October 25 local government elections heightened yesterday, as the embattled Warri Ijaw Peace Monitoring Group, WIPMG, gave condition for peace. October 22, 2014 In "News"