Governor Abdullahi Sule of Nasarawa State Monday raised the alarm over the invasion of five local governments by Boko Haram members and bandits in the state. The five local government areas are Karu, Wamba, Awe, Nasarara, and Doma Speaking at an expanded security meeting in Government House, Lafia, Sule said the dislodged Boko Haram members from Toto Local Government have now regrouped and spread to three Local Governments while some of the herdsmen and bandits chased from Oyo State have also found themselves in some local Government Areas respectively. According to Governor Sule, renewed activities of the Daru – Salem dislodged were regrouping in villages of Toto, Karu, Nasarawa, Wamba, and Awe LGAs. adding “Boko Haram members have now regrouped in places like Kabusu, Bakyano, Ambaka, Panda, Gidan – Rai in Nasarawa, Karu, and Wamba LGAs respectively. “The face-off between the herdsmen and vigilante in the southwest, especially in Ondo State, has worsened the situation and we have continued to see the influx of unknown Fulani herdsmen especially in Wamba, Doma, and Awe LGAs,” Sule noted. According to him, the government has put measures in place to safeguard boarding schools in the state following the activities of the bandits. “We have also dispatched some security agencies to watch out in Wuse as well as Toto, Umaisha and Gadabuke areas. We decided to send some surveillance in those areas in addition to the police,” he added. The expanded security meeting was attended by Security Chiefs, Traditional rulers, commissioners, permanent secretaries of religious organisations among stakeholders in the state. Vanguard News Nigeria Governor Abdullahi Sule of Nasarawa State Wednesday submitted names of 15 commissioner nominees including the state Chairman of NUJ, Dogo Shammah to the state House of Assembly for screening and confirmation as members of the state executive council. The speaker of the  House,   .Ibrahim Balarabe Abdullahi announced this on the floor… October 16, 2019 In "News" Says sect causing havoc in his state By Johnbosco Agbakwuru Nasarawa State governor, Abdulahi Sule, on Friday cried out to President Muhammadu Buhari over the havoc he said Boko Haram has continued to cause in the state. The Governor, who spoke to State House correspondents after meeting with the President… January 22, 2021 In "News" No fewer than 48,000 vulnerable households in Nasarawa State have  benefitted from the Federal Government Social Intervention out of the 200,000 registered in the first phase of the programme in the state. August 6, 2020 In "News"