Members of the Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19 on Monday in Abuja received jabs of the Oxford-AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccines during its weekly national briefing. The PTF team includes the Chairman, Boss Mustapha; Minister of Health, Osagie Ehanire; Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed; Minister of Environment, Muhammad Mahmood  and Minister of State for Health, Olorunnimbe Mamora. Others are the Director-General of Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), Chikwe Ihekweazu; Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffrey Onyeoma, and the National Incident Manager (NIM) PTF, Mukhtar Muhammad, among others. “Today, Monday, March, 8, 2021, I will lead all members of the PTF to receive the first doses of the vaccine as a further demonstration of the safety and efficacy. “Also, our journalists who are critical front-liners in this fight will receive the vaccine in a representative manner,” Mustapha said before the vaccination exercise. Nigeria on Tuesday took delivery of nearly four million doses of the Oxford-AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine as part of an overall 16 million doses planned to be delivered to the country in batches over the next few months.  The vaccines are being provided by COVAX, an unprecedented global effort to ensure equitable access to COVID-19 vaccines.  Upon arrival, samples were handed to NAFDAC, the Nigerian food and drug regulatory agency, for further examination.  Nigeria on Friday commenced the vaccination, beginning with healthcare workers who are often at the risk of exposure to infections being the first responders to patients. Cyprian Ngong, a medical doctor, became the first person to receive a jab of the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccines in Nigeria. Three other health workers were also vaccinated during the flag-off event at the National Hospital in Abuja.  President Muhammadu Buhari and Vice President Yemi Osinbajo also received jabs of the COVID-19 vaccines on Saturday to drive vaccine acceptance.  The PTF was established by President Muhammadu Buhari on March 9, 2020, to coordinate and oversee the country’s multi-sectoral inter-governmental efforts to contain the spread and mitigate the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic in Nigeria. Vanguard News Nigeria  By Omeiza Ajayi - Abuja As Nigeria today (Tuesday) takes delivery of nearly four million doses of Oxford/AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine, Senate President, Ahmad Lawan and House Speaker, Femi Gbajabiamila have been scheduled to get their jabs on Monday, March 8. The development is part of efforts by the National Primary… March 1, 2021 In "Health" …75 healthcare workers infected in one week …FG warns airlines against imposing ‘new testing regime’ on passengers …Cautions states on rising case fatalities …Warns MDAs against forcing workers on GL12 to resume …Ensure full enforcement of COVID-19 health protection regulations 2021, IGP orders AIGs, CPs …PTF declares Kogi ‘high risk’… February 2, 2021 In "Health" History has been as Dr. Cyprian Nyong, of the National Hospital, Abuja, receives the first COVID-19 vaccine today (Friday) in Nigeria, when he took the AstraZeneca/Oxford COVID-19 vaccine. March 5, 2021 In "Coronavirus Updates"