Nigeria’s ride-hailing company, Pickmeup Technologies Inc, was recently, named among the top start-ups to watch globally in 2021. The company was nominated by a global start-up community, Startup Grind, for meeting transportation challenges through technology. Startup Grind is a start-up community designed to educate, inspire and connect entrepreneurs, features startups from several countries across the world and in a number of sectors ranging from software as a service, SaaS, artificial intelligence, AI, financial technology, fintech, clean energy, travel, entertainment to telecommunications among others. Among the countries nominated, Europe and the United States dominate the 15-startup list with just one from Asia, Hong Kong. Pickmeup was the only company from Africa shortlisted by the company. The Startup Grind Team said: “Pickmeup is merging everyday personal needs into an easy-to-use digital platform for under-developed emerging markets, starting with mobility. “The startup has been developed to combat the current ride-hailing challenges faced by urban and rural users. Designed with a simplistic UI for users with multi-language support, it is an all-rounded dependable platform for customers and drivers.” The selected companies joined Startup Grind Global Conference that took place recently. The summit was a private bootcamp-style event designed exclusively for Startup Grind members. Pickmeup CEO and Founder, Mike Okaredje said the start-up is super excited to have its work recognised by Startup Grind. Okaredje said: “We look forward to connecting with great start-ups and leaders from innovative teams.” Among other activities that took place at the summit were roundtable discussions, hands-on workshops, and investor-led keynotes. The event concluded with Demo Day that afforded Pickemup and other companies the opportunity to pitch potential investors present including Y Combinator, DCM, Union Square Ventures, Antler, Maven, Initialized – as well as leaders from innovative teams at Oracle, Toptal, Fiverr, Productboard, GitLab, and more. Expert after expert has hailed Nigeria as a success in terms of technology consumption, but described the country as weak in the area of creating technology. The latter is easier said than done. Although none would compare the country’s tech terrain to Silicon Valley, many developers argue that the enabling… August 24, 2016 In "Technology" THE N300 billion innovation fund released by the Federal Government of Nigeria as seed fund to grow local technology start-ups, is expected to create up to 35,000 jobs in the country. The seed fund will work in concert with the $50 million target seed fund which an investment company, EchoVC,… January 27, 2016 In "News" Despite funding, mentorship , marketing, partnership and other challenging factors limiting African start-ups for global competitiveness, participants at the just concluded 2015 edition of DEMO Africa held in Lagos, Nigeria at the weekend urged young innovators to achieve scale in the local market with global vision. September 30, 2015 In "Technology"