Ecobank Nigeria has listed its $300 senior unsecured bond on the London Stock Exchange (LSE). The bank on Thursday opened the market at the LSE via a virtual ceremony to mark the listing of the bond. The bank in a statement announcing the development said: “The bond carries a coupon rate of 7.125%, significantly below its Initial Price Thoughts of 7.75%. The successful launch was three times oversubscribed and is the lowest coupon/yield by a Nigerian financial institution for a benchmark bond transaction since 2013. “It has an Issuer Rating of B- from Fitch Rating Agency and S & P. Citi, Mashreq, Renaissance Capital and Standard Chartered Bank acted as Joint Lead Managers and Bookrunners. “The proceeds will provide medium term funding and help to enhance the capacity of the bank to support international trade and service across Africa.” Commenting, Patrick Akinwuntan, Managing Director, Ecobank Nigeria, said: “The strong demand for our bond shows the international appetite for the Ecobank franchise in Nigeria, its unique positioning for facilitating pan-Africa trade and the attractive opportunity for the many investors seeking to back world-class Nigerian corporates.” Ecobank Nigeria, a subsidiary of Ecobank Transnational Incorporated, the parent company of the  Ecobank Group, provides the full suite of banking products, services and solutions through multiple channels to retail, commercial, corporate and public sector customers. Ecobank Nigeria has today opened the market at London Stock Exchange via a virtual ceremony to mark the listing of its five-year fixed rate senior unsecured US$300 million bonds. February 26, 2021 In "Business" Ecobank Nigeria has announced that it has successfully priced its USD 300 million bond issuance maturing in February 2026, with a settlement of the bond to take place on 16 February 2021. The fixed-rate, US dollar-denominated bond, with a tenor of 5 years, carries a coupon rate of 7.125% and… February 13, 2021 In "Business" Following its successful $500 million Eurobond issuance, Ecobank Transnational Incorporated (‘ETI’) (www.Ecobank.com), the Lomé-based parent company of the Ecobank Group, was hosted by the London Stock Exchange to a market opening ceremony to celebrate the successful listing of the Eurobond on the London Stock Exchange (LSE) main market. June 7, 2019 In "Business"