The Commissioner of Police, Lagos State, Hakeem Odumosu, has deployed additional mobile policemen to embark on massive raids of blackspots and criminal hideouts on the Island, while other detachments will focus on the mainland for their sting operations. In order to have well coordinated operations, the Commissioner of Police has detailed the Operational Commander, CSP Dalhatu Muazu, to work on the intelligence gathered on the identified balckspots and criminal hideouts in the areas and decimate their activities in order to maintain law and order and have public safety. Odumosu, however warned that the operations must be devoid of excessive use of power, violation of human rights and brutality. He charged the operational Commander and his teams to act according to the provisions of the law. CP Hakeem Odumosu reiterated that the operations are continuous until the state is rid of hoodlums and “bad boys” whose ideas and plans are to foment troubles and cause pains to Lagosians in the state. “No room for them in Lagos State”. Meanwhile the Commissioner of Police urged the general public to support the police and share useful information that can boost effective policing of Lagos State with the police. By Bose Adelaja A Police Special Squad set up by Lagos State Commissioner of Police, CP Hakeem Odumosu, has stormed Ikorodu area of the state arrested five suspected traffic robbers/cultists and cleared shanties in the area.  The operation took place at about 6pm on Thursday, at Agric area. The suspects… February 5, 2021 In "News" By Bose Adelaja Operatives of the Police's Rapid Response Squad RRS, have arrested two suspected Awawa cult members in Oke-koto, Agege. The arrest came hours after foiling a traffic robbery around Otedola Bridge on Lagos/Ibadan Expressway. The suspects, 22-year-old mechanic Rasak Babatunde and16-year-old tailor, Idowu Wasiu were arrested at their… December 21, 2020 In "News" Deploy RRS, other teams to Ikorodu over threats of attack by robbers By Evelyn Usman Three suspected traffic robbers that have been terrorising residents of the Agidingbi area of Ikeja and its environs have met their waterloo, following their arrest by operatives of the Rapid Response Squad, RRS of the… December 25, 2020 In "News"