Operatives of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA), Niger State Command have recovered 27 new rifles from two suspects during a routine stop and search operation in Kontagora area of the state. The suspects; Danjuma Auta, 35, and Daniel Danrangi, 25, both male and from Dirin Daji, Sakaba Local Government Area of Kebbi State were arrested along Kontagora – Zuru road, Niger state on Monday night. According to the Niger state Commander of the Agency, Mr. Aloye Isaac Oludare, the duo were arrested with 12 locally fabricated AK 47 rifles and 15 locally fabricated pistols. The rifles were concealed in a white sack while on a motorcycle to an unknown place when they were arrested. “Kontagora where the weapons were seized is about 107 kilometers from Kagara, a town in Niger State where there have been mass abductions of women, children and secondary school students in the last one month. “Preliminary investigation shows that the fabricator of the weapons resides in Kamfaninwaya, not far away from Kontagora, while one of the pistols is fully loaded. “The suspects and the weapons will be transferred to the Nigerian Police Headquarters, Minna for further investigation and prosecution of the suspects”, he stated. In another operation, operatives of NDLEA, Ondo State Command have raided Ita-Ipele and Ipele forests, Owo LGA of Ondo State. “During the operation, Six (6) suspects, namely; Stephen Ikechukwu, 38; Stephen Friday, 32; Austin Osadebe, 58; Friday Paul, 29; Adebayo Raphael, 25 and John Pius, 45, were arrested. “A total of 41kgs of Cannabis Sativa and 6kgs of Cannabis Seeds were recovered during the operation, while a total of five hectares of Cannabis farm was located and destroyed”, the Ondo state Commander of the Agency, Mr. Haruna Gagara stated. Vanguard News Nigeria The National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) in Niger said it arrested 143 drug suspects and seized 2,157.48kg of drugs in 2013. January 15, 2014 In "News" …Homicide only second to kidnapping in Niger State …Suspects with grenades to attack homes arrested …240  kidnap, robbery , rape suspects arrested in 10 months …40 abducted victims rescued , 1598 arms, ammunition recovered …As CP Usman reveals strategy of arrest By Evelyn Usman Niger State in the North Central… November 21, 2020 In "News" The Police Command in Niger said its operatives in collaboration with a local vigilance group have shot four suspected bandits in Mashegu Local Government Area of the state. The Commissioner of Police in the state, Mr Adamu Usman, made this known in an interview with News Agency of Nigeria (NAN)… November 12, 2020 In "News"