A Senior Advocate of Nigeria, SAN, Femi Falana, Friday denied buying any property from the Economic Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC. In a statement sent to Vanguard, Falana explained the incidents surrounding the said property. Yesterday, a witness, Mr. Ngozika Ihuoma, while narrating before the Federal High Court in Abuja, how, EFCC, under its former Acting Chairman, Ibrahim Magu, mismanaged 222 assets worth N1.63trillion, which he said was recovered by the defunct Pension Reform Taskforce Team, PRTT, opined that  “One of the properties in question located at No 42, Gana Street, Maitama, was illegally acquired by a renowned lawyer while the property was still subject to litigation,” the witness added, insisting that EFCC should be made to account for all the recovered assets. In a riposte, Falana “challenged the Federal Government to proceed to forfeit the alleged N1 billion purportedly paid by me and recover the property if it established that it was recovered by the Pension Task Force.” Read his full statement below: Sometime in April, 2017 an online medium, sponsored by the Federal Government, claimed falsely that the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) had handed over a property confiscated from a former governor of Bayelsa State, the late Chief D.S.P Alamieyeseigha to me. The malicious publication was dismissed when it was revealed that all confiscated properties from the ex-governor had been handed over to the Bayelsa State Government by the EFCC. In November 2017, the Attorney-General of the Federation & Minister of Justice, Mr. Abubakar Malami SAN alleged that the EFCC had sold one of the houses recovered by Mr. Abdurasheed Maina of the Pension Task Force to “a Lagos Lawyer”. Even though Mr. Malami SAN did not mention my name I challenged him to provide details of the property. But the challenge was not taken up. When the stories of the illegal acquisition of properties did not fly the Federal Government alleged before the Ayo Salami Judicial Commission of Enquiry that the suspended Chairman of the EFCC, Mr Ibrahim Magu had transferred N28.5 million to the Account of my law firm. A newspaper that linked me with the false story retracted the story and apologized when I threatened to sue for libel. The Panel did not invite me to give evidence as the story was found to be a LIE. My attention has just been drawn to the renewed version of the LIE to the effect that the same property lying and being at 42, Gana Street, Maitama District, Abuja, allegedly recovered by the Pension Reform Task Force was valued at N6,000,000,000 but sold to me for N1,000,000,000 sometime in 2015. I wish to say, without any fear of contradiction, that the property in question was never recovered by the Presidential Pension Task Force. It is on record that the property was used as collateral by the owner, A. Group Properties Limited a loan from Bank PHB in 2008. When the owner of the property defaulted in the payment of the loan it was taken over by the Asset Management of Nigeria (AMCON) via an order of interim forfeiture. However, in an attempt to liquidate the loan the owner of the property wanted to sell it. My law firm agreed to buy the property for N250,000,000 (Two hundred and Fifty Million Naira). But we withdrew from the transaction due to the delay in resolving the case. Up till now, the case is still pending at the Federal High Court. A copy of the order of interim forfeiture of the property granted in favour of AMCON is hereby attached. In the light of the foregoing, I challenged the Federal Government to proceed to forfeit the alleged N1 billion purportedly paid by me and recover the property if it established that it was recovered by the Pension Task Force. Vanguard News Nigeria Human rights lawyer, Femi Falana (SAN), has said that the allegations by the Attorney General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami (SAN) linking him to the purchase of a N1 billion property located at 43 Gana Street, Maitama, Abuja is a 'figment of his fecund imagination for mischief'. November 28, 2017 In "Law & Human Rights" A senior Nigerian lawyer, Femi Falana, has asked the Economic and Financial Crimes, EFCC, to promptly investigate a range of dealings involving alleged diversion of public funds over the years by government establishments, including the central bank, under former governors, Chukwuma Soludo and Lamido Sanusi. September 24, 2016 In "News" A Senior Advocate of Nigeria, SAN, Mr Femi Falana, Monday admonished the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, to stop sealing up assets belonging to suspects of financial crimes. December 10, 2018 In "Law & Human Rights"