The US State Department said Saturday it is “deeply troubled” by reports of violence and irregularities surrounding Uganda’s presidential election, which saw Yoweri Museveni win a sixth term in office. “The Ugandan people turned out to vote in multiparty national elections on January 14 despite an environment of intimidation and fear,” department spokeswoman Morgan Ortagus said in a statement. “We are deeply troubled by the many credible reports of security force violence during the pre-election period and election irregularities during the polls,” she said. Museveni extended his 35-year rule after an election which his main rival said was marred by fraud. He was accused of crushing the opposition and media ahead of one of the most violent election campaigns in recent years, which saw the deaths of at least 54 people. Ortagus called for “independent, credible, impartial and thorough investigations” into the reports of violence and fraud, and for those responsible to face justice. She condemned attacks on political candidates, and said the State Department is “gravely concerned by harassment of and continued threats to civil society.” Museveni won with 58.6 per cent of the vote, seeing off a stiff battle from former ragga singer Bobi Wine. Wine was under heavy guard at his home on the outskirts of Kampala as the results were announced, with his party saying he was under “effective house arrest.” The government said it was merely providing him with security. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni, who is seeking re-election on Thursday, took power at the head of a bush army in 1986 and has ruled ever since, making him one of the world's longest-serving leaders. - Rebel to ruler - As a young rebel leader, Museveni helps topple dictator Idi Amin… January 14, 2021 In "News" Ugandan opposition leader Bobi Wine on Friday claimed victory in presidential elections, rejecting as a "complete sham" early results that gave President Yoweri Museveni a wide lead. The 38-year-old former ragga singer said his party's polling agents were beaten and chased away in parts of northern and western Uganda, that… January 15, 2021 In "Foreign" The internet remained down in Uganda for a third day as vote counting for the presidential election continued, with provisional results from 24 percent of polling stations giving President Yoweri Museveni an early lead of 65 per cent while Bobbi Wine trailed with 27 percent. Opposition leader Wine said the… January 15, 2021 In "Foreign"