The Academic Staff Union of Universities, ASUU, has said the National Association of Academic Technologists, NAAT, or any other union should not use it as a bait to get anything from the government. ASUU, therefore, advised NAAT or any other staff union to fight their battles their own ways. The Chairman, University of Lagos, UNILAG chapter of ASUU, who is also a member of the National Executive Committee of the union, Dr Dele Ashiru, stated this on Sunday while reacting to claims by NAAT expressing displeasure with the sharing arrangement of the N40 billion released by the Federal Government as Earned Academic Allowances for university workers. “Who pays the Earned Academic Allowances, is it ASUU or the government?  In the first instance, ASUU presented its demands to the government and we made our case and based on that, the government released some money. “The money was not even up to what we demanded but we made the necessary concession in the interest of all. “However, the National Universities Commission, NUC, also saw the need to carry other unions along and made the request on their behalf. “Nobody should use ASUU as a bait to get anything from the government. We do fight our own battles and we want other unions to also fight their battles themselves,” he said. Ashiru pleaded that no union should drag ASUU to their fight or struggles. Vanguard News Nigeria By Adesina Wahab The Academic Staff Union of Universities, ASUU, has said the National Association of Academic Technologists, NAAT, or any other union should not use it as bait to get anything from the government. ASUU, therefore, advised NAAT or any other staff union to fight their battles their ways.… January 3, 2021 In "News" …Non-teaching varsity staff unions meet on Friday …Disparity in sharing of Earned Allowances, unpaid minimum wage arrears top agenda …NAAT writes govt, demands "percentage of N40bn" …Issues 14-day strike notice, claims govt yet to clear N71bn arrears of allowances …Says varsities' labs, studios dilapidated …SSANU decries non-payment of minimum wage… January 4, 2021 In "Education" NON teaching staff in the universities have said that their members will not resume work today pending when the Federal Government will pay them their Earned Allowances totalling over N66 billion. January 7, 2018 In "News"