US Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, Ben Carson, and Donald Trump Jr, Saturday criticized Twitter for deleting the U.S President’s account from its site. The micro-blogging site had on Wednesday banned Trump from publishing/posting information on the site. This however, is not unconnected to the protest at Capitol Hill, Washington, which Trump was accused of instigating. Other social media platforms like, Facebook and Instagram equally banned Trump. On Saturday Trump’s account was permanently deleted from Twitter, leaving him no choice but to stay clear from the site. Reacting Ben Carson, said: “You want to ban @realDonaldTrump , fine you’re a private company, but @Twitter  deleting the President’s account which highlights this admin & its history is wrong. @Facebook & @instagram banning all images from the Capitol riot is a dangerous precedent to set. We aren’t in China. “Silencing a significant number of voters and erasing history is no way to unite us; it only further divides. Big tech & social media platforms want to act like media orgs but don’t want to be held accountable with the rest of media. Speech should be free whether you agree or not. “As a Nation we need to heal. I have not talked to anyone about invoking the 25th Amendment, and I am focused on finishing what I started in uplifting the forgotten women and men of America. It’s time to move toward peace. We are not each other’s enemies!”. Also, Trump’s son condemned the act, saying: “Free Speech Is Under Attack! Censorship is happening like NEVER before! Don’t let them silence us. Sign up at http://DONJR.COM to stay connected! If I get thrown off my social platforms I’ll let you know my thoughts and where I end up.” You want to ban @realDonaldTrump, fine you’re a private company, but @Twitter deleting the President’s account which highlights this admin & its history is wrong. @Facebook & @instagram banning all images from the Capitol riot is a dangerous precedent to set. We aren’t in China. — Ben Carson (@SecretaryCarson) January 9, 2021  Silencing a significant number of voters and erasing history is no way to unite us; it only further divides. Big tech & social media platforms want to act like media orgs but don’t want to be held accountable with the rest of media. Speech should be free whether you agree or not. — Ben Carson (@SecretaryCarson) January 9, 2021  As a Nation we need to heal. I have not talked to anyone about invoking the 25th Amendment, and I am focused on finishing what I started in uplifting the forgotten women and men of America. It’s time to move toward peace. We are not each other’s enemies! — Ben Carson (@SecretaryCarson) January 8, 2021  Free Speech Is Under Attack! Censorship is happening like NEVER before! Don’t let them silence us. Sign up at https://t.co/835Eak6Ghi to stay connected!
If I get thrown off my social platforms I’ll let you know my thoughts and where I end up. pic.twitter.com/bO7wbfWWVr — Donald Trump Jr. (@DonaldJTrumpJr) January 9, 2021  Vanguard News Nigeria The outgoing United States President Donald Trump has been "indefinitely" banned from Facebook and is temporarily banned from tweeting to his over 88 million followers after a night of violence in Washington D.C. Social media giants Twitter, Facebook and its subsidiary Instagram announced they were suspending US President Donald Trump's accounts… January 7, 2021 In "News" World leaders condemn 'assault on democracy' at US Capitol World leaders and governments on Wednesday expressed shock and outrage at the storming of the US Capitol in Washington by supporters of President Donald Trump. - Britain - British Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Twitter condemned the "disgraceful scenes in U.S.… January 7, 2021 In "Foreign" …Facebook, Instagram block Trump’s accounts indefinitely …More top advisers resign …Over 65 attackers arrested A growing number of lawmakers  — including from Democratic leadership — are calling for President Donald Trump to be removed from office either through impeachment or  the 25th Amendment  to the Constitution after a violent mob… January 8, 2021 In "News"