The Enugu State chapter of the Atiku Support Organisation, ASO, has held its inaugural meeting to kick start its activities in the state. The meeting, held in Enugu, the state capital on January 16, had in attendance the zonal coordinator of the Organization, Alozie Alozie. While speaking to the newly-appointed ASO state executives, the zonal coordinator urged them to ensure they worked hard to promote the organisation and ensure that the gospel of Alhaji Atiku Abubakar reaches every corner of the state. Also speaking, Enugu State coordinator thanked the zonal coordinator for the privilege and noted that the entire state executive members are ready to work and ensure victory for the organisation. Members of Enugu State executive of ASO are Chukwunonso Ugwu, State Coordinator; Ugwuoke Oluchukwu, Woman Leader; Mr. Nwebiem Uchenna, Assist Secretary; Agu Sylvia, Legal Adviser. Others are Kingsley Okongwu, Contact/Mobilisation 2; Ozo Ikenna, Publicity Secretary; Onah Onyekachi, Ogbu Chukwunonso, Welfare secretary; Ndubuisi Mbah, Contact/Mobilisation; Eneogbuagu Christian, Secretary; Ugwu Frederick, Eneoko Ifeanyi, Youth Leader, Male; Onyinye Nwachukwu, SA Political to Zonal Coordinator; Ndubuisi Nworgu, SA South-East Zonal Coordinator. Vanguard News Nigeria By Gabriel Olawale The former Vice President  Atiku Abubakar has inaugurated a youth based  Campaign Organisation, the Atiku Support Organisation (ASO), under the chairmanship of his son, Mohammed  Atiku Abubakar. Speaking during the inauguration in Abuja, the Director General of the Organisation, Mohammed Babawo said that ASO left no stone… December 19, 2020 In "News" ...says media claim of 2023 presidential ambition is lazy journalism By Gabriel Olawale The South East chapter of the Atiku Support Organization has called out one of the mainstream media (not vanguard) over it's publication that former Vice President Atiku Abubakar sold his shares in Intels to fund his 2023… January 6, 2021 In "News" Chieftains of Ohaneze Ndigbo are split over the purported endorsement of the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Alhaji Abubakar Atiku by the organisation. January 25, 2019 In "News"