The Accord Party has rated Lagos State Gov. Babajide Sanwo-Olu high in performance in 2020. The party’s Acting State Publicity Secretary, Mr Dele Oladeji, made the assessment on Wednesday in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Lagos. He, however,  urged the governor to do more to reduce poverty and hardship in the state in 2021. “He (Sanwo-Olu) showed a commendable capacity to rise up to call-of-duty, from his timely responses to the Abule-Egba pipeline explosion, COVID-19 Pandemic and the EndSARS protest. “These are commendable. “However, a lot needs to be done to pull Lagosians out of stack poverty and hardship through practicable economic policies that will grow micro-economy, ease transportation and create jobs,” Oladeji said. The spokesman said that the state government must go the extra mile in 2021 in infrastructure renewal and economic prosperity for  Lagos residents. “Gov. Sanwo-Olu also needs to introduce trade and tax incentives to bolster dwindling micro trades as well as ease bureaucratic chokes on small and medium enterprises,” he said. Oladeji added that there was a need for more people-centred policies in 2021. Vanguard News Nigeria The main opposition party in Lagos State, Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, and the ruling All Progressives Party, APC, have disagreed over the performance level of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu in the last one year in the state. May 31, 2020 In "News" The Lagos State Government has urged residents to make sacrifices so as to achieve the ”Greater Lagos of our dream.” The State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, made the plea on Friday while presenting the 2020 Budget to the State House of Assembly. Sanwo-Olu said that Lagos faced an “existential threats”,… November 9, 2019 In "News" ...Says Akeredolu has performed against all odds ...Play by the rules, APC tells supporters By Omeiza Ajayi - Abuja Lagos State Governor and Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) National Campaign Council for the Ondo Governorship election, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has told the opposition party, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), not… August 15, 2020 In "Politics"