The Bishop of Sokoto Diocese, Matthew Hassan Kukah, Thursday, said that the wounds of the civil war have not been healed. Kukah disclosed this at a zoom meeting organized by Dele Momodu of the Ovation Magazine and Mazi Ezeoke. Speaking on the theme: The Second never again conference: 51 years after Nigerian-Biafran Civil war, the outspoken Bishop, advised Nigerians to compile a history of the country, noting that knowing the history will calm/qualm the taste for violence. Kukah who has been on the media for criticizing the current administration and proffering solutions to the problems of the country noted that Nigerians and of course their leaders are not happy with the current situation of the country. He highlighted, poor economic policies, insecurity and poor education/health systems as issues bedeviling the country and advised the current administration to fix them. “We are failing in almost all the sectors. We must stand up and fix them”. Speaking further, Kukah said that there is enough blame to go round, noting that everyone should be blamed for the current situation of the country. If we are saying NEVER AGAIN, we must identify some fundamental issues. We must have our history written down or acted as a movie. We must understand the role of religion in Nigeria. The issue of consequentiality should also be of great essence. There should be consequences for good and bad behavior.” Vanguard News Nigeria A member of the House of Representatives, Hon. Teejay Yusuf has said that the ongoing criticisms and verbal attacks against Bishop Matthew Hassan Kukah were a deliberate attempt to ignore the genuine issued raised in his Christmas message to the country. December 30, 2020 In "News" CATHOLIC Bishop of Sokoto Diocese, Rt. Rev Matthew Hassan Kukah, yesterday, blamed the increasing wave of insurgency in the country on what he described as conspiracy of silence and break down of societal surveillance. March 28, 2014 In "News" THE Catholic Bishop of Sokoto Diocese, Bishop Hassan Kukah, has said the “selfish exclusionist policies” of a few leaders laid the foundation for the Nigerian Civil war as well the mindless killing by the Boko Haram terrorists sect in the North-East part of the country. May 30, 2017 In "News"