The Management of the Lagos State University has shut down all hostels at the College of Medicine, LASUCOM, as three students have tested positive for Coronavirus disease. A statement on Thursday night by the Coordinator, Centre for Information Press and Public Relations, CIPPR, Mr Ademola Adekoya, said the affected students had been isolated and were being treated. “In addition, stakeholders are also informed that: Roommates of the three students who tested positive and their associates are being tested; the College already isolated the affected three (3) students and has commenced contact tracing of all affected students. “The hostel facilities were immediately closed for decontamination upon confirmation of the status of the affected students; all students of the College have been advised to proceed home to self-isolate for the next fourteen (14) days from where their health status will be monitored by the College. Phone numbers/contacts of all students are already obtained to that effect. Any students showing symptoms at home are to contact the College through dedicated lines for necessary assistance/treatment. “Meanwhile, the College has handed treatment packs to all three who tested positive; the College is also providing psychological support to the three students who tested positive and their roommates. “Parents, guardians and the general public are assured that the safety of all staff and students is of top priority and the Lagos State University as a whole will continue to enforce compliance with Covid-19 guidelines and protocols to ensure the safety of all within her campuses. “Management also again enjoins all students, staff and the general public to take personal responsibility and continue to observe Covid-19 guidelines as the virus is real and deadly,” the statement read. Vanguard News Nigeria By Adesina Wahab The management of the Lagos State University  LASU, Ojo has denied an online publication titled "LASU College Of Medicine Management Throws Out Students’ Belongings From Hostels", in which a news platform alleged that the management of the Lagos State University College of Medicine (LASUCOM) threw out belongings… September 23, 2020 In "Education" By Adesina Wahab The management of the Lagos State University  LASU, Ojo has denied an online publication titled "LASU College Of Medicine Management Throws Out Students’ Belongings From Hostels", in which a news platform alleged that the management of the Lagos State University College of Medicine (LASUCOM) threw out belongings of… September 23, 2020 In "Education" The Bachelor of Dental Surgery and Bachelor of Nursing Science programmes in the Lagos State University College of Medicine, Ikeja will soon take off as the Resource Assessment Visitation of the National Universities Commission (NUC) has visited the College. January 13, 2010 In "Education"