The CBN has advised all Deposit Money Banks (DMBs) accredited Cheque Printers/Personalised, and the Nigeria Interbank Settlement System (NIBSS), to enlighten their customers on the revised cheque book, introduced across all banks. Mr Sam Okojere, Director, Banking Services Department, who gave the advice in a circular posted on the CBN website, said it had become imperative for the Apex bank to enlighten stakeholders about the circular, which had been interpreted differently from the intended purpose. He explained that based on the CBN’s circular dated Dec. 9, 2020, referenced BKS/DIR/CIR/GEN/02/042 on the subject, the parallel run, in which old and new cheques are allowed to co-exist, will end on 31st March 2021, and thus only new cheques would be allowed in the clearing system from 1st April 2021. “Full enforcement of the second edition of the Nigeria Cheque Standard (NCS) and Nigeria Cheque Printers Accreditation Scheme (NICPAS) Version 2.0 will commence April 1, 2021, and the NCS/NICPAS 2.0. Sanction grid will be fully operational on April 1, 2021. “All deposit money banks are (therefore) directed to actively enlighten their customers and ensure necessary provisions are put in place for a smooth migration to the New standard. “The extension of full implementation date from Jan. 1 to April 1, 2021, is due to the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic and the impact it had on the Nigeria Cheque Standard (NCS) and Nigeria Cheque Printers Accreditation Scheme (NICPAS) Version. 2. Vanguard News Nigeria The Central Bank of Nigeria, CBN, has denied accreditation to foreign printers who hitherto printed cheque books for some Nigerian banks. August 19, 2015 In "News" The Central Bank of Nigeria, CBN, has accredited two companies - Superflux International Ltd and Tripple Gee and Company Plc as authorised printers of cheques and other security paper instruments, thereby delisting 13 firms with the exclusion of foreign printing firms. May 13, 2013 In "Finance" There are indications that the recent decision by the Central Bank of Nigeria, CBN, to accredit only two local firms to print 300 million cheques and other security paper instruments for the 22 banks in the country may not be the best economically due to lack of capacity by the… June 2, 2013 In "Business"