England-born Nigerian defender, Tayo Edun,  was weekend on the score sheet as Lincoln FC defeated AFC Wimbledon 2-1 in an English League 1 clash. Playing away from home, Lincoln FC made a bright start to the game on eight minutes when Tayo  Edun,  who was formerly with Premier League side Fulham, netted the opener. It was a cool,  calm and calculated finish from the impressive Edun,  who is a nephew of top property agent and acquisition expert,  Yemi Edun. Although Ollie Palmer equalised for Wimbledon after 31 minutes, Tayo Edun and his Lincoln FC teammates continued pressing. Their effort and tenacity paid off seven minutes from regulation time when Tom Hopper got on the end of a beautiful pass to score the winning goal to earn a deserved win. It was a hard-fought victory that did not come without implications for Lincoln FC as two of their players, Brennan Johnson and Jorge Grant were handed yellow cards by the match official. But the cautions were not enough to dampen the celebrations of the travelling Lincoln FC team, who walked away with three massive points in their first match of the New Year. And part of the credit for the triumph goes to Tayo Edun for being on hand to score an unlikely goal from a defensive position and how ecstatic the celebrations of the  22-year-old Edun were at the end of the match. The versatile 21-year-old has been on the Fulham Academy’s books since Under-11 and holds excellent pedigree as an England youth international. He was part of the Young Lions squad that lifted the Under-19 European Championship and made his First Team debut with Fulham in 2016 with a 3-2 win over Leyton Orient in the EFL Cup. Edun made his under 17 England debut in 2014, going on to make 34 CAPS across the entire England youth setup. The highlight of it all was when he went home with the winner’s medal at the 2017 European Under-19 Championship. So far, he’s made 43 appearances for Fulham and Lincoln City across the Championship and League 1. Much of that has come in the EFL Cup and FA cup. Vanguard News Nigeria Bello Buba was the star man as Lagos Lintex recorded a 12-6 ½ goal win over Lagos Riverlake Caverton in the Open Cup as the 2017 NPA Lagos Polo International Tournament majorly sponsored by GTBank hots ups. February 19, 2017 In "Sports" Nigeria’s top female polo player, Neku Atawodi-Edun has been named by Access Bank as its brand ambassador for its W-Access banking package. May 18, 2019 In "Sports" Hosts Kwara United Football Club of Ilorin on Saturday completed a season double over visiting Supreme Court FC, winning 3-0 in their 2015/2016 Nigeria National League (NNL) fixture. The Kwara United had defeated Supreme Court FC 1-0 in the first round in Abuja earlier in the season. August 7, 2016 In "News"