The Rivers State Government has commenced admission of students into the Real Madrid Football Academy in the state. The selection process for interested persons which started yesterday in Port Harcourt is conducted by the State’s Ministry of Education in collaboration with the Real Madrid Football Academy. In a statement in Port Harcourt yesterday, Faustina Nwanekwu, Media Assistant to the Commissioner of Education in state, Prof. Kaniye Ebeku, noted that the government was pleased with the development. Nwanekwwu said: “The two-pronged process began today with aptitude test held at the premises of Model Girls Secondary School, Rumuokwuta, Rivers State. “Supervised by the State Commissioner for Education, Professor Kaniye Ebeku and the S.A on Real Madrid Football Academy, Rivers State, Mr. Christopher Green, the exercise was held under strict compliance with all COVID-19 health protocols. “The exercise was very well organized and managed. There was palpable enthusiasm for the exercise, and equal eagerness on the part of prospective candidates to gain admission into the specialized Academy. “The process continues on Tuesday at the Sharks Stadium, hospital Road, Port Harcourt with practical screening to assess the candidates’ footballing skills.” Vanguard News Nigeria Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Ezenwo Wike declared that the Real Madrid Academy in Port Harcourt has already received over 1500 applications for admission into the Academy from across the country. Addressing journalists after returning to the state on Thursday from Madrid, Spain where he signed a ratification agreement for the… October 31, 2019 In "Sports" By Temisan Amoye, Lagos Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike met with Real Madrid President, Florentino Perez, last night at the Santiago Bernabeu, Madrid. The meeting was held to consolidate the gains of the partnership entered between Real Madrid and the Rivers State Government on the operation of Real Madrid Academy,… October 31, 2019 In "Sports" Rivers Sports Commissioner, Boma Iyaye says the State-owned Real Madrid Football Academy in Port Harcourt will produce a future generation of football superstars comparable to Lionel Messi and Cristiano Ronaldo. Iyaye stated this when he visited the Academy ahead of official resumption, on his way to the Rivers United Football… September 26, 2020 In "Sports"