Troops under the auspices of Operation Thunder Strike on Monday night killed two bandits along the Sabon Iche-Kagarko Road, Kagarko local government area. According to the operational feedback to the Kaduna State Government,  the troops laid an ambush along the route following credible intelligence on the bandits’ movement in the area. Samuel Aruwan, Commissioner, Ministry of Internal Security and Home Affairs, Kaduna State, said on Tuesday that
while attempting to invade the road for an operation, the bandits entered the killing zone and the troops opened fire. The bandits returned fire as they beat a hasty retreat. “After the firefight, the dead bodies of two bandits were retrieved by the troops, with the rest suspected to have escaped with gunshot wounds. The troops suffered no casualties. “Confirmation from local sources revealed that the bandits were indeed part of the notorious group terrorizing the area. “While expressing his elation at the report, Governor Nasir El-Rufai praised the troops’ gallantry and congratulated them for a successful expedition.
Aggressive patrols will continue in the general area.” “Meanwhile, communities around the area are advised to report individuals seeking medical attention for suspicious injuries. Such reports can be forwarded via the Kaduna State security operations room on the phone lines: 09034000060, 08170189999 and via email: Internal.Security@kdsg.gov.ng ” “Citizens are to note that any locals found harbouring or providing medical aid to bandits with bullet wounds will be charged as bandits.” Vanguard News Nigeria By Ibrahim HassanWuyo Three vigilantes in Kaduna State were reported to have been ambushed and killed Tuesday night by daredevil bandits. This was contained in a report by the Kaduna State Vigilance Service (KADVIS) presented to the state's government According to the service, bandits ambushed the personnel at Dande village… November 18, 2020 In "Metro" The Kaduna State Government has been informed that troops of ‘Operation Thunder Strike’ (OPTS),  successfully repelled armed bandits along the Kaduna-Abuja Road late on Monday night. November 24, 2020 In "News" …foil bandits' attempt to move rustled cattle By Ibrahim HassanWuyo Troops in Kaduna state have killed 9 armed bandits following a firefight that began on Monday night all through the early hours of Tuesday. The Kaduna State Government was informed of the development by the military securing the Kaduna-Abuja Road… December 29, 2020 In "News"