Kwara State Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq has dissolved his cabinet with effect from last week Thursday, December 31, 2020. The dissolution was contained in a letter written by Secretary to the State Government, Professor Mamman Sabah Jubril, to all cabinet members. Jubril retains his seat. The Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Rafiu Ajakaye also announced this in a statement late Sunday evening. According to the copy of the letter written by SSG to cabinet members sighted by Vanguard,” “I write on behalf of His Excellency, Governor of Kwara State, Mallam AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq to thank you most profoundly for your worthy and remarkable contributions to the success story of the administration thus far. ” It has been an eventful and useful experience working with you in the council in your capacity as Commissioner… You have left indelible marks in your tracks as you performed your statutory responsibilities and His Excellency and indeed Kwarans remain ever grateful. “I am to however inform you that the current executive council is now dissolved effective from 31st December 2020. “I am to thiank you immensely to your contributions while wishing you the very best in your future endeavours. “You may be requested to kindly lend your expertise in diverse capabilities in the building of our dear state when the occasion demands such in the near future. ” Please accept the esteemed regards of His excellency, the Executive Governor of Kwara State,” the letter concluded. The statement by Ajakaye said, “the Governor also directed the former cabinet members to hand over to the most senior officers in their respective ministries. The cabinet members were sworn in on December 14, 2019, comprising at least 56.25% female, in what was remarkably the most gender-friendly cabinet on the African continent. The cabinet also had the country’s youngest commissioner. Vanguard News Nigeria By Demola Akinyemi During the 100 days anniversary breakfast meeting with journalists in Kwara State inside the expansive hall of Kwara hotels, Governor Abdulrazaq Abdulrahman among others drops the hint that the much-expected cabinet list would be unveiled the following week. But contrary to the expectations of keen watchers of… September 21, 2019 In "Features" Gov. AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq of Kwara has said that over 1,000 schools would be reconstructed and equipped with modern teaching facilities across the 16 local government areas of the state September 8, 2020 In "News" Kwara Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq on Monday received the United Nations-backed _‘HeforShe’_ award for his efforts and cabinet picks, which have mainstreamed gender inclusion in the state’s political structure. The award was conferred on the Governor in Ilorin, the state capital, when the Minister of Women Affairs Dame Pauline Tallen paid… December 14, 2020 In "News"