Leader of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, in Edo State, Mr. Charles Idahosa, on Friday, congratulated the people of Edo State for successfully going through the year 2020 with all its drama, losses, tensions, governorship election and other challenges into the year 2021. In his New Year message, the former Political Adviser to Edo State Government urged Edo people to be more law-abiding, vigilant and continue to defend the culture and values that make the Edo man unique. He noted all the Edo people have had to go through like other Nigerians, “starting with the poor economy and maladministration of the Federal Government, the global COVID-19 pandemic and the lives and businesses lost. “Ther was also the #EndSARS protests and the bitterly-fought elections in Edo, wherein forces of darkness tried to wipe out the light and gains we have made as a people under the leadership of Governor Godwin Obaseki.” He urged the Edo people to celebrate with moderation, noting that “we only crossed from 2020 into 2021 on calendar and not into another world, and the COVID-19 with its new strains are real. “We must be very observant of the NCDC protocols and follow up the instructions issued by the Edo State government in trying to manage the pandemic and feel very free to use any of the testing centres; health is priceless.” Idahosa  wished the Edo people a most fulfilling new year, filled with “grand adventures and opportunities and above all testimonies as to the mercies and grace of our Lord.” Vanguard News Nigeria By Clifford Ndujihe Chief Charles Idahosa, former Commissioner for Information in Edo State and Political Adviser to Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, has picked holes in what he described as an insensitive rally by Oshiomhole, on Sunday, at a time the state is mourning former state house Speaker, Zakawanu Garuba. Oshiomhole, on… July 20, 2020 In "News" LEADERS of All Progressives Congress, APC and Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, in Edo State, weekend, abandoned their political differences to attend the 60th birthday anniversary of the Political Adviser to the Governor of the state, Chief Charles Idahosa in Benin City. September 22, 2013 In "News" Edo State Government, yesterday, described as laughable, statement credited to a chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, in the state, Owere Dickson-Imasogie, that the Action Congress of Nigeria, ACN, in the state won the last general elections due to the influence of the Oba of Benin. June 30, 2011 In "News"