A herder, Ado Hassan, has been killed by unknown persons in Southern Kaduna.  The military under the auspices of Operation Thunder Strike (OPTS) has informed the Kaduna State Government of the killing of the herder while grazing in Matyei village, Atyap Chiefdom of Zangon Kataf local government area. Samuel Aruwan ,Commissioner, Ministry of Internal Security and Home Affairs, Kaduna State, said on Monday, that the troops responded to a report of a farm destroyed in the village on Sunday afternoon, and arrived the scene to discover that a herder, one Ado Hassan, had been shot dead by unknown persons. Aruwan said initial investigations into the killing led to the arrest of three persons: David Kure ,Peter Adamu and Bulus Duniya Further investigations yielded two more arrests early this morning: Matthew Peter and Yohanna Chawai The arrested suspects are undergoing preliminary investigation. Governor Nasir El-Rufai expressed dismay at the killing and sent condolences to the family of the herder, while praying for the repose of his soul. He urged citizens to eschew jungle justice and embrace recourse to the law in the face of any incursion or offence, and further tasked security agencies to conduct thorough investigations into the killing. Vanguard News Nigeria By Ibrahim Hassan No fewer than seven persons have been killed in fresh attacks in Jemaa Local Government Area of Kaduna State. The incident occurred in the early hours of yesterday at Ungwan Bido village where some residents were killed and four injured. Also, two children are still missing. The… November 30, 2020 In "News" …Injure 4, 2 children missing El-Rufa'i orders investigation of killing and counter killing By Ibrahim HassanWuyo Security agencies in Kaduna state have reported that Ungwan Bido village in Southern Kaduna was attacked Sunday 29th November 2020, where some local residents were killed and four injured. Two children were declared missing.… November 29, 2020 In "News" …Kill 8 in Kaduna, Katsina …Passengers in commercial bus abducted in Edo By Aliyu Dangida, Ozioruva Aliu, Ibrahim HassanWuyo, Abdulmumin Murtala & Bashir Bello The security situation in the country is not abating as kidnappers are having free days in several parts of the country with over 22 people reportedly… December 23, 2020 In "News"