Ondo State Government has distributed 10,000 rat poisons to residents of Ogbese in Akure North to kill rats in the community to curb the spread of Lassa fever. Over 3000 rats were killed in Owo town after the state government distributed poison to the residents. Reports had it that the disease had spread to five local government areas of the state. The Assistant State Epidemiologist, Dr Dolani Gbelela, said the state is now the epicentre of Lassa fever in the country. Gbelela said 423 cases of Lassa fever were recorded in 2020 out of which 81 persons died representing 34 per cent of Lassa fever-related deaths in Nigeria. He pointed out that Lassa fever was of a greater burden to the state and advocated that necessary measures be put in place to eradicate the scourge. According to him those mostly affected were between 21 and 30 years. The state Commissioner for Health, Dr Jjibayo Adeyeye, said Lassa Fever has killed many people in the state since it was first discovered in Ose local government. Adeyeye urged all residents of Ogbese to play their role in preventing the outbreak of the disease by burning all bushes around their houses as well as the killing of rats. The Odopetu of Ogbese, High Chief Oladimeji Abitogun, said proper attention should be given to Lassa fever as the world is placing on COVID-19. Abitogun said more deaths have been recorded from Lassa fever than COVID-19 in the state. Vanguard News Nigeria By Dayo Johnson, Akure Lassa fever has killed over 80 persons in Ondo state within the last one year, the state government has revealed. Health commissioner, Dr Jibayo Adeyeye disclosed this in Owo during a road walk sensitization on the eradication of Lassa fever in the state. Adeyeye noted that… December 18, 2020 In "Health" SOMETIME in 1969 in a town called Lassa in the part of Nigeria now known as Borno State, a nurse in a mission hospital died of a mysterious disorder. There were two similar reported cases in Chicago, and New Jersey, United States (US). Both individuals had recent travel history to… January 10, 2016 In "Health" Following the loss of 42 lives to the Lassa fever outbreak out of the 86 reported cases, some residents in the affected states have remained indifferent. While some stated that they have not paid attention to the development, some indicated that they were no adequate awareness campaign to guide people… January 16, 2016 In "News"