The Arise Foundation for Women, Youth and Family Development, in collaboration with Aderoju Ayoade Adekanmbi Foundation, has empowered over 100 youths with cash gifts and over 100 children with educational materials and uniforms in Lagos and Oyo states. The intervention, tagged “#EndSARS with cash funds to do business,” had over 100 youths that participated in the 12-day October nationwide protests as beneficiaries. They were given N10,000 each and over 100 children were given N10,000 to buy educational materials and uniforms for schools. Speaking at the event, the Founder and Chief Executive Officer of Arise Foundation for Women, Youth and Family Development, Mrs. Joke Akinseye, said empowering the youths accelerates the economic growth and continuous development of a nation. She noted that what motivated her work in the community was her background, having lived in the UK for over two decades which operate a welfare system. She said in the UK,  the poor in the society are looked after by the government or charity organisations to ensure they live a better life. She stated that with this background, she believes in assisting the downtrodden to be lifted up. According to her, “what operates in the UK is exactly what I am practising here in Nigeria. In the UK, no one can say they have no food to eat, or not educated for lack of money. “If you want to do business, you have assistance, and also in whatever career you choose to go with.” The Arise Foundation Founder added that many of the youths in Nigeria are unemployed and that this is sad because they are the future of Nigeria. In the UK, we have youths that cause disruptions or antisocial behaviour because they wanted attention, such youth needed love and caring. Vanguard News Nigeria I grew up knowing that the first step to greatness is to admire greatness. Finding my way to the spotlight of public life however taught me that we owe our society the duty of celebrating greatness in a world where negativity has greater audience. This is the conviction with which I… September 29, 2017 In "Facing The Ka'aba" Widows and orphans residing in Ojodu-Berger area of Lagos recently had a reason to celebrate as Jay Mecare Foundation (JMC), a non-profit organization, organised a workshop for them and the aged with a conference centred on motivation and empowerment for vulnerable women and youths. The one day event attracted dozens… December 15, 2016 In "News" The event was styled to project three years of people-focused representation for the people of Lagos West Senatorial District. The woman who left several memorable legacies as First Lady in Nigeria’s most populous state, had seemingly relocated her magic wand to the National Assembly where her presence, passion and politics… August 1, 2014 In "News"