Governor Godwin Obaseki has said that Edo State has built the capacity to conduct 600 coronavirus (COVID-19) tests daily, even as there are three additional Real Time-PCR Molecular Reference Laboratory operational in the state. The governor urged stakeholders and residents to support the government’s efforts to contain the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic. The governor disclosed while addressing journalists in Benin weekend. He said: “In our COVID-19 response, we provided funding and platform for the set up of three additional Real Time-PCR Molecular Reference Laboratory in Edo State, with a daily testing capacity of 600 test per day at the Irrua Specialist Teaching Hospital, (ISTH), University of Benin Teaching Hospital (UBTH), Edo Specialist Hospital and Lily Hospital.” “There is also a massive procurement of laboratory commodities, personal protective equipment (PPE), ventilators, dialysis machines, PCR reagents, vehicles etc. essential for supporting Covid-19 response in Edo State”. “The state government has also put in place a highly coordinated surveillance system across the 18 LGAs of the state as well as along entry and exit points into the state for contact tracing, line listing and active case search at facilities and communities.” Obaseki said the state has also strengthened collaboration with institutions, organizations and groups within and outside the state to harness support for Covid-19. He added that efforts have been galvanized to build capacity and skills of Edo State health workforce through regular training and retraining with over 5000 health care workers trained across the state, with participants drawn from public and private institutions. Vanguard News Nigeria The Federal Government has applauded the Governor Godwin Obaseki-led administration's data-driven and robust response to the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic in Edo state. The Minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire, made the submission during the inauguration of the 300-bed isolation and treatment centre at the Stella Obasanjo Hospital and the… May 29, 2020 In "News" …promises to make Edo healthcare hub The Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, on Friday, commissioned the fourth coronavirus (COVID-19) molecular laboratory to boost testing capacity for the disease in the state and contain the pandemic. Commissioning the testing facility at Lily Hospital in Benin City, Obaseki said: “The Lily… August 28, 2020 In "News" The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) has accredited the Edo Specialist Hospital to join its laboratory network for testing for coronavirus (COVID-19) disease. The development comes in the wake of reforms by the Governor Godwin Obaseki-led administration which had procured three PCR machines to be installed in three hospitals… July 22, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"