The Enugu State Government has felicitated with iconic former Nigerian international footballer, national captain and coach, ‘Chairman’ Christian Chukwu, on his attainment of 70 years. Chukwu is from Enugu State. A congratulation message from the State Commissioner for Information, Nnanyelugo Chidi Aroh, said that the government and the people of the state are “indeed very proud of the immeasurable contributions of this great son of Enugu State to the development of the game of football both locally and internationally”. It added that “we recall with great delight the numerous contributions of Christian Chukwu to the game of football including leading the Nigerian National team, The Green Eagles, as Captain to win their first-ever African Nations Cup in 1980”. Noting his other achievements in his football career, the Government said that “Christian Chukwu also had an outstanding career as coach of various National teams, including Nigeria, Kenya and Lebanon”, saying that “his (Chukwu’s) performance at various times as player, coach and manager of Enugu Rangers International FC is indeed unparalleled”. “As we join his family, friends and the entire football family worldwide in celebrating this football icon, we beseech the Almighty God to grant him good health of mind and body”, Aroh said. Vanguard News Nigeria President of the Nigeria Football Federation, NFF, Amaju Pinnick yesterday disclosed to Vanguard Sports that Christian Chukwu was appointed a life Ambassador of the Super Eagles with a monthly salary of N500,000 because of his contributions to the development of the game in the country. April 26, 2019 In "News" Former Green Eagles captain and later coach of Nigeria, Christian Chukwu, has spoken from his hospital bed in Enugu April 12, 2019 In "Sports" THE signs are ominous. The Nigerian  football family is agitated. Chairman, Christian Chukwuemeka Chukwu is ill. And the sickness is serious. There is no gain saying the fact that the former Nigeria captain and 1980 AFCON winner requires unqualified medical attention. Chukwu’s illness has been widely reported. Nigerians expressed outrage,… April 13, 2019 In "News"