The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, NCDC, on Thursday, said it received over 580,000 COVID-19 related phone calls between March and December 2020. The Centre, whose mandate includes “leading the preparedness, detection, and response to infectious disease outbreaks and public health emergencies” disclosed this in a statement, titled: ‘NCDC Announces 6232 as Short Code for Public Enquiries’ The health agency described the quick code as a strategic tool for its surveillance and risk communications activities. Unveiled in partnership with the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), the shortcode requires no charges, and it enables Nigerians to have access verified information on COVID-19 and other infectious diseases. NCDC’s Director-General, Dr. Chikwe Ihekweazu, was quoted as saying, “Between March and December 2020, the NCDC Connect Centre received over 580,000 COVID-19 related phone calls. “The shortcode number ‘6232’ will be used alongside the existing toll-free number – ‘0800 9700 0010’, with a gradual phase-out of the existing toll-free number. “The NCDC remains strongly committed to working with relevant government institutions and partners to protect the health of Nigerians.” According to the statement, the shortcode can also be used to obtain verified information on other infectious diseases “We urge the public to use the shortcode responsibly, in accessing verified information on COVID-19 and other infectious diseases.” Vanguard News Nigeria By Chioma Obinna The Director-General of Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, NCDC, Dr. Chikwe Ihekweazu, on Monday, said one in four calls the NCDC received last week was a hoax. Speaking during the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 briefing in Abuja, Ihekweazu who said the quality of their call centre… July 13, 2020 In "News" By Abdallah K. Gwarzo 1. NCDC IS LESS THAN A DECADE OLD The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control first came to limelight in 2014, following the Ebola outbreak in West Africa. Since then, the young agency has focused on strengthening health security in Nigeria. The first official step to establish… July 9, 2020 In "News" Medical practitioners in Akwa Ibom State have commended the Director-General of the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), Dr. Chikwe Ihekweazu, for his display of professionalism and sincerity in handling COVID-19 pandemic in the country, describing him as an upright man. May 17, 2020 In "News"