The federal government, Monday,declared that no COVID-19 test was required for returning students to be admitted into their schools. But the government,in a terse statement by the Federal Ministry of Education, Monday, explained that only temperature test should be carried out on students. In the statement released by the ministry’s Director for Press and Public Relations, Bem Goong, the government warned school authorities against “asking students or parents to undergo COVID-19 test before they are accepted in their schools.” The statement read in full:” The Federal Ministry of Education says no COVID-19 Test is required for returning students to be admitted into their schools. “Only temperature checks should be carried out on students and any other person crossing any school gate. ” School authorities should therefore refrain from asking students or parents to undergo COVID-19 test before they are accepted in their schools.” Vanguard News Nigeria By Joseph Erunke   ABUJA-THE federal government, Monday,declared that no COVID-19 test was required for returning students to be admitted into their schools. But the government,in a terse statement by the Federal Ministry of Education, Monday,explained that only temperature test should be carried out on students.  READ ALSOBuhari approves… January 18, 2021 In "News" By Joseph Erunke - Abuja The federal government, Monday, declared that no COVID-19 test was required for returning students to be admitted into their schools. But the government, in a terse statement by the Federal Ministry of Education, Monday, explained that only temperature test should be carried out on students.… January 18, 2021 In "Coronavirus Updates" Governor Dapo Abiodun, on Monday, ordered the stepping down of the COVID-19 test as a mandatory requirement for returning students in the exit classes, and equally directed that the government laboratories carry out tests for all returning SS3 boarding students at no cost. August 3, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"