ABUJA: The Middle Belt Forum, MBF, Sunday, called on the Federal Government to join hands with Governor Rotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State and other state governors to flush out criminals herders to end the culture of lawlessness ripping across the country by these murderers who have turned forest reserves into safe harbors for their crimes. The MBF in a statement issued by its President, Dr, Pogu Bitrus in Abuja, insisted that the only way to end these vicious assaults by these bandits is to completely flush them out of our nation’s forest reserves. The Forum said it was completely opposed to any action by the Federal Government to escalate the ongoing tension as demonstrated by the arrest order on Mr Sunday Adeyemo, AKA, Igboho. The statement reads, ”The attention of the Middle Belt Forum has been drawn to the storm of reactions over the quit notice issued by Governor Rotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State to criminal herders to either vacate the state forest reserves or face the full wrath of the law. ”We are also worried at the turn of events in the South-west and the order issued by the Inspector General of Police, Mr Mohammed Adamu, for the arrest of Mr Sunday Adeyemo, AKA Igboho, over his alleged role in the violence that took place at the weekend in Oyo state. ”While we welcome the bold decision by the governor to protect lives and property of citizens threatened by the activities of bandits that have now found safe havens in forests, we are completely opposed to any action by the Federal Government to escalate the ongoing tension as demonstrated by the arrest order on Igboho. ”As the umbrella organisation representing ethnic nationalities in the Middle Belt region, the MBF is in total support of ridding Ondo State of bandits and criminal elements as contained in the ultimatum handed down on criminal herders by the governor. ”As the Chief Security Officer of Ondo State, Governor Akeredolu is rightly entitled to protect citizens that are now under constant siege by criminal elements. ”For those who insist that the quit order on criminal herders amounts to infringing the citizenship rights of Fulani, the Forum wishes to reiterate that Akeredolu’s quit order is to unregistered herders occupying the forests and involved in kidnappings and banditry. ”The MBF wishes to state that it is unacceptable for the Federal Government to interfere in the genuine efforts deployed by Governor Akeredolu to end the ceaseless abductions of peaceful citizens for ransom. ”We find it inscrutable for the President Muhammadu Buhari-led Administration to insist on defending criminals whose major preoccupation is unleashing violence and terror on peaceful communities.
”What the Federal Government should do now is to assist Akeredolu and other state governors to flush out these criminals and end the culture of lawlessness ripping across not only Ondo but also other states where these outlaws have turned our nation’s forest reserves into safe harbors for their crimes. ”The Forum recalls that in the height of grisly killings and devastations that trailed many communities in Benue state, President Buhari had called on the people to return home and learn to live with their neighbours in peace. ”When neighbours decide to turn themselves into agents of terror on their fellow neighbours who are peace-loving, then, such neighbours are no longer neighbours but outlaws that must be arrested and be made to face the law. ”The MBF wishes to state that the only way to end these vicious assaults by these bandits is to completely flush them out of our nation’s forest reserves. ”We cannot continue to play the ostrich as Nigerian communities continue to suffer bloodshed due to increasing waves of vicious and unprovoked attacks on defenceless citizens by these vicious brigands. ”With many states, especially in the Middle Belt Region, now under the menace of these outlaws, we call for both the Federal Government and the states to adopt the policy of ranching as means of ending the security challenges posed by these criminal herders. ”We call on state governors to emulate Akeredolu’s quit order in order to cleanse Nigeria’s forest reserves of vicious brigands. In this modern age noted for global best practices, the adoption of the policy of ranching has become an urgent and irrevocable option. ”We call on the Federal Government, especially the Police, to desist from escalating the crisis. What the Presidency and the Police ought to do now is to assist various states to flush out these criminals. ”Arresting Igboho at this moment can only escalate the growing tension into a raging fury that may further lead to dreadful uncertainties for our nation’s future. ”We stand in solidarity with Governor Akeredolu on his resolve to rid the forest reserves of bandits engaged in kidnappings and other crimes.
‘We call on the Federal Government and other state governors to work in partnership and end the terror perpetrated by these bandits whose occupation of the country’s forest reserves have become present and future dangers to Nigeria as a nation. ” Vanguard News Nigeria By Chris Ochayi, Abuja The Middle Belt Forum, MBF, Sunday, called on the Federal Government to join hands with Governor Rotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State and other state governors to flush out criminals herders to end the culture of lawlessness ripping across the country by these murderers who have turned… January 24, 2021 In "News" Governor Rotimi Akeredolu’s seven-day ultimatum to armed herdsmen to leave Ondo forests and comments that the Presidency is emotionally attached to Fulani herdsmen, Wednesday, drew supportive reactions from Ohanaeze Ndigbo; Pan-Niger-Delta Forum, PANDEF; the Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB; Afenifere; Yoruba Council of Elders, YCE, and some senior lawyers, SANs. January 21, 2021 In "Politics" *Show the world that you’re father of all, Ondo monarchs tell Buhari *YSG, Ondo lawmakers, Agunloye, others speak *Your overt support for Miyetti Allah may destroy Nigeria, SMBLF tells FG *How Akeredolu reactivated 1969 Cattle Trade Law *50,000 farmers registered in four years – Agric commissioner Dayo Johnson, Regional Editor,… January 22, 2021 In "News"