The Special Adviser to President Muhammadu Buhari on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, Thursday gave reason pigeons did not fly during the Armed Forces Remembrance Day ceremony. He said the pigeons could not fly because they have been kept in the cage for a very long time, noting that “when birds and some other roaming animals have been circumscribed for a while, they get accustomed to their new status as lawful captives. Therefore, when you offer them freedom, they first baulk, thinking it’s too good to be true. It’s a natural phenomenon”. Disclosing this in his article titled: “Reflections from a wreath laying ceremony”, Adesina averred that: “President Buhari opened the cage that held the pigeons, about a score or so. One hesitated, then flew, followed by another. “The others temporized a bit. And then, two, three minutes later, they all took to the sky. Nothing extraordinary in the development, you would think. But not to the idle and indolent, most of who populate the social media. It was time to major in something minor, cavil, find fault unnecessarily. The pigeons didn’t fly, they refused to fly, it’s ominous, they wailed like wailing wailers. “And you began to wonder: are people this idle? Don’t they have productive things to do with their times? Are their minds so addled, and all they want to do is find faults against their President, ascribing spiritual connotations to a non-issue? “For their information: Muhammadu Buhari has no time for such frivolities. He just continues to serve the country with his heart and mind, trying to make a difference in security, economy, and anti-corruption. And he will get there, by the grace of God. But if they don’t change, the wailers will be losers, standing small.” Vanguard News Nigeria By Emmanuel Okogba Pigeons released as a tradition in commemoration of Armed Forces Remembrance Day by President Muhammadu Buhari refused to fly, causing mixed reactions of social media. President Buhari was seen trying on multiple occasions to release the birds but they only ended up sitting on the cage, managing… January 15, 2021 In "News" *Says refusal of pigeons to fly indication that Nigeria not at peace By Joseph Erunke A group acting under the auspices of Coalition of Patriotic Nigeria Elders (COPANE) have said the best way to celebrate the 2021 Armed Forces Remembrance Day would have been for President Muhammadu Buhari to sack… January 16, 2021 In "News" Nigerians have taken to the social media, suggesting reasons why the pigeons refused to fly away during the Armed Forces remembrance day ceremony that took place on Friday. READ ALSO: #EndSARS Celebrity Case: Lawyer lauds Foundation for standing in defense of public interest The Pigeon Who Saw Everything.  #EndSARS pic.twitter.com/XXQCi3kcnW… January 18, 2021 In "News"