Google-owned YouTube on Tuesday temporarily suspended President Donald Trump’s channel and removed a video for violating its policy against inciting violence, joining other social media platforms in banning his accounts after last week’s Capitol riot. Trump’s access to the social media platforms he has used as a megaphone during his presidency has been largely cut off since a violent mob of his supporters stormed the Capitol in Washington DC last week. Operators say the embittered leader could use his accounts to foment more unrest in the run-up to President-elect Joe Biden’s inauguration. “In light of concerns about the ongoing potential for violence, we removed new content uploaded to Donald J. Trump’s channel for violating our policies,” YouTube said in a statement. The channel is now “temporarily prevented from uploading new content for a ‘minimum’ of 7 days,” the statement read. The video-sharing platform also said it will be “indefinitely disabling comments” on Trump’s channel because of safety concerns. Facebook last week suspended Trump’s Facebook and Instagram accounts following the violent invasion of the US Capitol, which temporarily disrupted the certification of Biden’s election victory. In announcing the suspension last week, Facebook chief Mark Zuckerberg said Trump used the platform to incite violent and was concerned he would continue to do so. Twitter went a step further by deleting Trump’s account, depriving him of his favorite platform. It was already marking his tweets disputing the election outcome with warnings. The company also deleted more than 70,000 accounts linked to the bizarre QAnon conspiracy theory, which claims, without any evidence, that Trump is waging a secret war against a global cabal of satanist liberals. Trump also was hit with suspensions by services like Snapchat and Twitch. The president’s YouTube account has amassed 2.77 million subscribers. The home page of the Trump channel featured a month-old video of Trump casting doubt on the voting process in November’s presidential election, and had logged some 5.8 million views. On Tuesday, an activist group called on YouTube to join other platforms in dumping Trump’s accounts, threatening an advertising boycott campaign. Vanguard News Nigeria The outgoing United States President Donald Trump has been "indefinitely" banned from Facebook and is temporarily banned from tweeting to his over 88 million followers after a night of violence in Washington D.C. Social media giants Twitter, Facebook and its subsidiary Instagram announced they were suspending US President Donald Trump's accounts… January 7, 2021 In "News" World leaders condemn 'assault on democracy' at US Capitol World leaders and governments on Wednesday expressed shock and outrage at the storming of the US Capitol in Washington by supporters of President Donald Trump. - Britain - British Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Twitter condemned the "disgraceful scenes in U.S.… January 7, 2021 In "Foreign" Facebook banned President Donald Trump from the platform "indefinitely" due to the US leader's efforts to incite the violence in the US capital this week, chief executive Mark Zuckerberg said Thursday. Zuckerberg said on his Facebook page that the ban, which was announced Wednesday for 24 hours, was extended because… January 7, 2021 In "Foreign"