Popular comedian, Bolaji Amusan, popularly known as ‘Mr Latin who is the president of the Theater Arts and Motion Picture Producers Association of Nigeria (TAMPAN) has come out to debunk the raging speculations that veteran actress, Orisabunmi, her brother and sister who died within a space of 3 days to one another may have died of Covid-19 complication. According to Mr Latin who spoke on the phone with Vanguard, the husband of Orisabunmi’s sister has cleared the air that his wife did not die of Covid-19, neither was Orisabunmi nor the elder brother. Mr Latin revealed that Orisabunmi has been sick for a while and so was the brother who died a day after. The brother, aged 71 was said to have been ill before Orisabunmi and may have given up the ghost upon hearing of his sister’s death. The same situation seemed to have been with the sister who died another day after the brother. According to Mr Latin, the sister was said to have been hypertensive and probably died of heart failure or cardiac arrest upon the news of her sister’s death. The husband of Orisabunmi’s deceased sister claims he has no Covid-19 symptoms and so is the hospital in which his wife died. “If Orisabunmi’s sister had died of Covid-19 the hospital in Ibadan where she died would have been shut down. But it’s business as usual in the hospital,” Mr Latin said. Watch this space for more update Vanguard News Nigeria TAMPAN confirms Orisabunmi' s death With poetic lines the president of the Theatre Arts and Motion Pictures Practitioners Association of Nigeria (TAMPAN), Bolaji Amusan, popularly known as Mr Latin, has announced the death of one of the shinning lights of the movie industry, Chief Mrs Folakemi Aremu aka Orishabunmi. The… January 6, 2021 In "Entertainment" Babatunde Omidina popularly known as Baba Suwe, is alive, Bolaji Amusan, popularly known as Mr Latin has cleared death rumour on the ace comedian. Report has it that Baba Suwe, who has been ill for a while, has been flown to the United States for treatment. On his Instagram page,… April 23, 2019 In "News" Babatunde Omidina popularly known as ‘Baba Suwe’ has been admitted at the Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH) in Idi Araba, Lagos. February 22, 2019 In "News"