Former governor of Imo state, and the Senator representing Imo West Senatorial District, Rochas Okorocha said that his still a member of the All Progressives Congress, APC. Okorocha stated this in Owerri through a statement from his Special Adviser on media, Sam Onwuemeodo, from a meeting with members of APC, of his rescue mission and that of Daniel Nwafor’s leadership where he reacted to report that he is planning to form a new political party. According to Okorocha, “Our Party is APC. Don’t be confused when I said that there were bad people and good people in both APC and PDP. And that the good people in the two parties should come together for the good of the nation. I was talking about a movement and not party. “I have not left APC. I am still in APC. Nobody has a stake in APC more than me. The worst insults I had in Imo and in the South-East in 2015, was because of APC and President Muhammadu Buhari. APC was formed by President Buhari, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, myself and few other people. But those on congratulation trip, have taken over the party.” Okorocha was of the stand that, “Daniel Nwafor and others, duly elected as the Executives of the Party remain as such. Those who want to destroy the Party lied to President Buhari. The Judgements on the issue all stated that the NEC of the Party or the governor, cannot remove the party excos. The party executives can only be removed by convention. “Whatever they do here without the duly elected party officials in the State, including the planned registration exercise, expected to begin on Monday, would be null and void. We do not recognize Governor Uzodinma’s APC in Imo. That’s not APC in Imo State. That’s PDP people. How many APC members are among his more than one hundred and twenty appointees? None of course.” IMO State governor Rochas Okorocha, yesterday said he would support his son-in-law Mr. Uche Nwosu, for the governorship race in Imo, should he (Nwosu) join another political party. November 28, 2018 In "News" The Presidential campaign of the All Progressives Congress (APC) landed in Owerri, Imo State capital last Tuesday to garner the support of the people of the state for the party’s candidates including president Muhammadu Buhari in the forthcoming elections. February 2, 2019 In "News" OWERRI—SPOKESPERSON of the Coalition of Imo State All Progressives Congress, APC, stakeholders known as Imo Allied Forces, Theodore Ekechi, yesterday said that the ongoing political battle between the coalition and Governor Rochas Okorocha was achieving it’s desired results. October 26, 2018 In "News"