Mali has officially disbanded its military junta, according to a government decree seen by AFP on Tuesday, more than five months after the army deposed president Ibrahim Boubacar Keita. The junta briefly governed the country after the August 18 coup and formally remained in place even after the putschists handed power to a civilian interim government, which raised questions about the military’s continuing influence. “The National Committee for the Salvation of the People (CNSP) is dissolved,” said the decree, dated January 18, which AFP obtained from a military official. Young army officers launched the coup after weeks of anti-Keita protests, fuelled partly by frustrations over perceived government corruption, and the president’s inability to end a jihadist conflict that has raged since 2012. Under the threat of international sanctions, the officers handed power between September and October to a caretaker government, which is meant to rule for 18 months before staging elections. But some have raised doubts about the government’s ability to stick to its timetable so soon after the coup, and amid conflict. Mali’s military has also retained a tight grip on the interim government. Coup leader Colonel Assimi Goita is the interim vice president. The 15-member Economic Community of West African States, which has mediated Mali’s political strife, urged the interim government on January 12 to disband the junta. [AFP]  Vanguard News Nigeria Mali's interim legislature on Saturday elected Colonel Malick Diaw, a member of the military junta that toppled president Ibrahim Boubacar Keita in August, as its president. The 121-seat body known as the National Transition Council was meeting for its inaugural session in the capital Bamako, and is a key part… December 5, 2020 In "Foreign" Mali's ex-president Ibrahim Boubacar Keita returned to the Sahel state Wednesday, an official said, after leaving to seek medical treatment following his ouster in an August coup. The 75-year-old former leader landed in the capital Bamako in the evening, an airport official said, his first time back in Mali since… October 22, 2020 In "Foreign" Mali must return to civilian rule immediately and hold elections within 12 months, West African countries demanded Friday in a virtual meeting attended by President Muhammadu Buhari, as they considered sanctions over a military coup that toppled the country's president. The demands were spelt out after the new junta released… August 29, 2020 In "News"