The ruling All Progressives Congress APC has dismissed as tissues of lies, some online reports indicating that it has postponed its membership registration and revalidation exercise scheduled to begin on Monday. The Party in a statement Saturday by the Secretary, Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee CECPC, Sen. John James Akpanudoedehe said a notice in circulation ascribing the postponement to him “is fake and highly mischievous”. “The APC membership registration, revalidation and update exercise remains on course and commences as scheduled in the attached timetable. “As earlier announced, the CECPC has approved the constitution of State Membership Registration Committees for the Party’s nationwide membership registration, revalidation and update exercise. This will be followed by a train-the-trainer workshop”, Akpanudoedehe stated. Meanwhile, the party has released its timetable and schedule of activities for the exercise. By the schedule, the party leadership would between Monday and Wednesday constituted and inaugurate the State Membership Registration Committees while it will also embark on a “Train the trainers” exercise. Thereafter, registration materials would be distributed while the actual registration of members would commence on Tuesday, 2nd February. Vanguard News Nigeria By Omeiza Ajayi The ruling All Progressives Congress APC has said it will soon embark on a nationwide membership registration exercise, two years after it conducted the same exercise. Chairman, APC Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) and Governor of Yobe State, Mai Mala Buni on Thursday officially received materials for the… November 5, 2020 In "Politics" By Omeiza Ajayi THE Chairman, Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee, CECPC, of ruling All Progressives Congress APC, Governor Mai Mala Buni, has warned critical stakeholders of the party against hijacking its membership registration and revalidation slated to commence on January 25. He gave the charge on yesterday in Abuja when… January 21, 2021 In "News" By Omeiza Ajayi - Abuja Following the defection of the Ebonyi State Governor, Dave Umahi to the All Progressives Congress APC, the Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee CECPC of the party has dissolved its Ebonyi State Working Committee. APC in a statement by its Deputy National Publicity Secretary, Yekini Nabena on… November 19, 2020 In "News"