Pope Francis has accepted the resignation of the Catholic Archbishop of Minsk, the Vatican said on Sunday, after he spoke out against the Belarus government and violence against protestors. Archbishop Tadeusz Kondrusiewicz was allowed to return to Belarus last month after being stopped from re-entering the country since August following a holiday in Poland where he called for the resignation of Belarus President Alexander Lukashenko. It was not immediately clear whether Kondrusiewicz’ resignation was expected. The Vatican said in a short statement that the resignation was in accordance with a code that allows bishops to retire at age 75. While in Poland, Kondrusiewicz, who is a Belarus citizen, gave an interview to a radio station calling for an end to police violence against protesters and demanding the resignation of Lukashenko, who in August had won re-election in a vote the opposition said was rigged. Lukashenko, who faces ongoing protests by the opposition against his rule, accused Kondrusiewicz in November of plotting to “destroy the country”. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria Protesters in Belarus weathered icy conditions Sunday, hitting the streets to demand the resignation of authoritarian leader Alexander Lukashenko who is facing down months of historic protests against his rule. The Viasna rights group said dozens of people were detained in Minsk as authorities deployed water cannon and large numbers… December 14, 2020 In "Foreign" Thousands of Belarusian demonstrators were met with a violent police response on Sunday night as they protested what they said was a fraudulent election, after long-serving incumbent Alexander Lukashenko claimed victory. Here is how the world has reacted to the disputed vote on Europe's eastern frontier. - EU: 'count votes… August 10, 2020 In "Foreign" Demonstrators massed in central Minsk on Sunday after opposition leaders called for a huge rally to demand the resignation of Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko, the latest in a wave of protests against his disputed re-election. The authoritarian leader dispatched his notorious riot police to disperse spontaneous rallies that erupted after… August 23, 2020 In "Foreign"