Prof. Babatunde Salako, the Director-General of the Nigerian Institute of Medical Research (NIMR), on Friday, in Lagos, said the institute had carried out over 10,000 COVID-19 free tests in the country. Salako told the Newsmen that the institute, in collaboration with Lifebank, started a free COVID-19 drive through testing within the institute in March 2020. According to him, the institute, saddled with the responsibility of conducting research on public health emergencies, was involved chiefly in the control of the pandemic in testing and research capacity. “Since the establishment of NIMR’s COVOD-19 testing centre, in collaboration with Lifebank, we have tested over 10,000 Nigerians for free, without collecting any Kobo from anyone. “We have been involved in two activities in the control of the virus in the country, which are testing and research, especially in the area of diagnostics. “Our researchers have come up with COVID-19 diagnostic tools to help increase our testing capacity,” he said. NAN reports that NIMR was established in 1977, to conduct research into diseases of public health importance and develop structures for the dissemination of research findings. Vanguard News Nigeria The Nigerian Institute of Medical Research (NIMR) says two suspects are presently  in police custody for issuing fake COVID-19 test results with the institute’s name. Prof. Babatunde Salako, the Director-General (D-G) of  NIMR, made the disclosure to newsmen in Lagos on Friday during a news conference  to reveal NIMR’s… January 8, 2021 In "News" The Nigerian Institute of Medical Research (NIMR) on Friday unveiled the first SARS-CoV-2 Isothermal Molecular Assay (SIMA) kit in the country to boost COVID-19 testing capacity. Speaking at the unveiling, Prof. Babatunde Salako, Director General of NIMR, said the testing kit was developed to ease the challenges posed by the… September 18, 2020 In "News" ...to commence trial on the efficacy of chloroquine in 2 weeks By Chioma Obinna, As part of efforts to provide laboratory testing for more Nigerians following the increasing cases of Coronavirus disease in the country, the Nigerian Institute of Medical Research, NIMR, will begin clinical trials on three rapid testing… March 29, 2020 In "News"