Afenifere has said the Service Chiefs’ sack and appointment of replacements on Tuesday was nothing special, as security damage had already been done to the country. In a statement, the pan-Yoruba socio-political organisation said President Muhammadu Buhari had done nothing special. The presidency had announced, Tuesday, that President Buhari has accepted the immediate resignation of the Service Chiefs, and their retirement from service. Read the story HERE. The affected officers are Chief of Defence Staff, General Abayomi Olonisakin; Chief of Army Staff, Lt-Gen. Tukur Buratai; Chief of Naval Staff, Vice Admiral Ibok Ekwe Ibas; and Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar. The new Service Chiefs are Major-General Leo Irabor, Chief of Defence Staff; Major-General I Attahiru, Chief of Army Staff; Rear Admiral AZ Gambo, Chief of Naval Staff; and Air-Vice Marshal IO Amao, Chief of Air Staff. However, Afenifere said it was done too late, as irreparable damage had been done to Nigeria’s security apparatus. According to Afenifere’s National Publicity Secretary, Yinka Odumakin: “He (Buhari) has not done a special favour to make us jump in joy. “The nepotic way he has handled the security sector has created damage that will take a lot time to repair if we shall ever be able.” Odumakin said Afenifere was sceptical about whatever reason made Buhari keep the Service Chiefs for this long, adding that nepotism and managing the country in a sectional manner had not changed. He also pointed out the omission an officer from the South-East region of the country. Vanguard News Nigeria President Muhammadu Buhari has accepted the immediate resignation of the Service Chiefs, and their retirement from service. This was contained in a statement issued by the Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Chief Femi Adesina in Abuja Tuesday. January 26, 2021 In "News" In an apparent bid to re-jig the nation’s security apparatus in the wave of growing insurgent attacks and suicide bombings, President Muhammadu Buhari, 45 days after assuming office, yesterday sacked all the service chiefs and appointed replacements whom he said were chosen on merit. July 14, 2015 In "Headlines" ...says Buhari lost six years of fight against insecurity to former Service Chiefs Former Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Timi Frank, on Tuesday, attributed the rising spate of insecurity in the country to the retention, for far too long, of Service Chiefs who were… January 26, 2021 In "News"