CHIEF of Army Staff, COAS, Lt. General Tukur Buratai; General Officer Commanding 7 Division, Nigerian Army and Attorney General and Minister of Justice, have been sued at the Federal High Court of Nigeria, Maiduguri for illegal detention. In suit No. FHC/MU/CS/1/2021 is filed by Alhaji Ibrahim Shehu Damakosu and Sabo Yahaya for the enforcement of their fundamental human rights pursuant to Section 46(3) of the 1999 Constitution as amended. The petitioners are seeking a declaration that the continued detention of the applicants at the detention cell of the 7 Division, Nigerian Army, Maimalari Cantonement, Maiduguri from November 24, 2020 till date without being brought before a competent court for trial is unconstitutional, unlawful, illegal, null and void. They are also seeking for an order compelling the respondents to either arraign the applicants before a competent court of law to immediately discharge the applicants from unlawful detention forthwith. The petitioners also seek payment of damages in the sum of N100million, written apology and any further orders as the court may deem fit to make in the circumstances. No date has been fixed for hearing yet. Vanguard News Nigeria Sixty-four villagers in Niger State have dragged President Muhammadu Buhari and seven others to court over invasion of their villages in 2016 during which no fewer than 13 persons were killed, with several others injured and property worth millions of naira destroyed. January 31, 2018 In "News" Head of the Benue State Livestock Guards, Alhaji Aliyu Teshaku, has dragged the Director General of Department of State Services, DSS, the Chief of Army Staff and the Attorney General of the Federation to a Makurdi Federal High Court, seeking the enforcement of his fundamental human rights over his alleged… July 5, 2018 In "News" The Abuja Division of the Federal High Court has ordered the Chief of Army Staff, Lt. General Tukur Buratai, to pay N11million as damages for the breach of fundamental rights of 11 Gombe State indigenes illegally detained by officers of the Nigerian Army. August 23, 2018 In "News"