Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, has hailed the ruling of the Federal High Court, Abuja, on the certificate forgery case brought against him by the All Progressives Congress (APC). The governor, in a statement in Benin, Saturday, said that the judgment was a triumph of the rule of law and a testament to the fact that truth would prevail ultimately no matter how vehemently detractors push lies in the face of incontrovertible evidence. He said, “The verdict of the Federal High Court, delivered by Honourable Justice Ahmed Mohammed is well-received and a victory for the rule of law. “It was a most needless attempt by desperate individuals trying to undo the will of the people through the backdoor but we are happy today that justice and truth have prevailed.” He said that the verdict confirms once again that the Edo people were well-guided in trusting him to lead them in the September 19th governorship election, promising to continue to prioritise the development of the state not minding the darts thrown by those who are embittered by their loss and continue their attempt to put a spanner in the works even when they have been roundly beaten on all fronts. “My profound gratitude goes to the judiciary who have stood indefatigably for truth and justice; the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, President Muhammadu Buhari (GCFR); my party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP); our party leaders and members; my teeming supporters; the good people of Edo State and all Nigerians.”, he said. Vanguard News Nigeria ...says Plaintiffs failed to prove their allegations By Ikechukwu Nnochiri The Federal High Court in Abuja, on Saturday, dismissed the certificate forgery case the All Progressives Congress, APC, and one of  its members, Mr. Williams Edobor, instituted against Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State. The court, in a judgement that… January 9, 2021 In "News" …Ize-Iyamu appeals high court ruling on deputy’s disqualification By Ozioruva Aliu THERE is anxiety among members and supporters of Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the All Progressives Congress (APC) and its candidate in the September 19, 2020 governorship election as the Federal High… January 9, 2021 In "News" THERE is anxiety among members and supporters of Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the All Progressives Congress (APC) and its candidate in the September 19, 2020 governorship election as the Federal High Court in Abuja would today (Saturday) rule on an alleged forgery… January 9, 2021 In "Politics"