Kano state government has reaffirmed its commitment to the continuous implementation of the N30,600.00 minimum wage for civil servants. It however said, that deduction in November/December workers’ salary was a temporary measure informed by the drop in federal allocation and dwindling internally generated revenue occasioned by the COVID-19 pandemic. The state commissioner for Information, Malam Muhammad Garba who stated this in a statement, Thursday, indicated that the deduction was necessary to keep the government going in the face of the prevailing economic recession facing the country. “The state government took the measure instead of contemplating on paying half salary or in batches as obtained in other states or layoffs. “Similar temporary measure was taken, including cut in the allowances for all political appointees in its administrative structure, during the first wave of the pandemic in the country between March and July, last year, which was withdrawn soon after the virus situation improved. “As soon as the state of affairs improves, the state government would not hesitate to pay workers in its employ the full salary” Malam Garba stated. He solicited for the support and cooperation of the entire workforce in the state to bear with the situation and desist from spreading rumours on the government intention. Vanguard News Nigeria The Kano State Chapter of the Nigeria Labour Congress, NLC has on Wednesday given a two weeks ultimatum to Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje in protest of the cut down of the worker's salary or face strike action. May 27, 2020 In "News" KANO - Organised Labour in Kano State, through the state chapter of the Nigeria Labour Congress, NLC, Wednesday issued a two week ultimatum to Governor Abdullahi Ganduje to reverse slash in workers’ salary or face strike . May 27, 2020 In "News" By Bashir Bello KANO - The Kano State Chapter of the Nigeria Labour Congress, NLC has on Wednesday given a two weeks ultimatum to Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje in protest of the cut down of the workers salary or face strike action. It was alleged that the Kano State Government… May 27, 2020 In "News"