THE Presidency on Friday alleged that people stoking ethnic and religious unrest in the country are motivated by quest for power and filthy lucre. The Presidency also raised the alarm over the alleged plan to launch a smear campaign against President Muhammadu Buhari in the media. This was contained in a statement issued by the Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Chief Femi Adesina, in Abuja. According to the statement, “Those who are bent on stoking ethnic and religious unrest in the country remain deaf to reason and impervious to reality. They are hell-bent on distorting reality, and Nigerians are urged to be wary of them. It is all about the quest for power, and filthy lucre.” It said security sources have revealed that those behind the plot have procured online blogs and newspapers for the plot, which they will launch any moment from now. It said the plan will be implemented through newspapers editorials and special investigative stories designed to exacerbate ethnic/religious tensions in the country. The statement read in part: “There is a compelling reason to alert the nation of another orchestrated smear campaign against President Muhammadu Buhari, using some online newspapers and blogs. “The campaign, scheduled to be launched anytime soon through editorials and purported special investigative stories, is designed to further exacerbate tension in the land, by portraying the President as pandering to ethnic and other primordial tendencies, contrary to his pledge to belong to all Nigerians. “Impeccable security findings indicate that those behind the plot have procured online blogs and newspapers, which are to launch coordinated publications, alleging subjugation and suppression of a particular religion and ethnic groups. “A specific medium has so far contacted some opinion leaders, especially those very critical of President Buhari. “Part of the planned publication is to make ethnic group against crimes of murder, kidnappings, rape and banditry in the southern, middle belt and some northern states. “The publication will also refer Nigerians to a 58-page document, which chronicles purported atrocities of the ethnic group in the South since 2017, all of which it claims the Presidency has turned blind eyes to. “Again, the hatchet job will allege that the President has continued to place members of his ethnic nationality in sensitive positions, so as to confer undue advantage on them. This allegation is by no means supported with reasonable facts and figures. The presidency recalled that just on Thursday, President Buhari while meeting with the Nigerian Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs (NSCIA), led by Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Muhammad Sa’ad Abubakar, restated his even-handedness on the issues of ethnicity and religion. Said the President: The statement recalled Buhari’s statement during the meeting saying: “The Federal Government under my leadership does not, and will not, allow religious prejudice or partisanship to influence any of its decisions and policies. It is my solemn decision to be fair and just to all segments of society.” Vanguard News Nigeria Alleges plot to smear Buhari By Johnbosco Agbakwuru  THE Presidency on Friday alleged that people stoking ethnic and religious unrest in the country are motivated by quest for power and filthy lucre.  The Presidency also raised the alarm over the alleged plan to launch a smear campaign against President Muhammadu… January 29, 2021 In "News" The Presidency has alerted the nation of another orchestrated smear campaign against President Muhammadu Buhari, using some online newspapers and blogs. January 30, 2021 In "News" Ahead of the expiration of the tenure of the President of Christian Association of Nigeria, CAN, Pastor Ayo Oritsejafor in July, tension is already mounting within the Christian community following alleged plans by President Muhammadu Buhari and All Progressives Congress, APC, to install a Northern successor. February 22, 2016 In "News"