Professor Wole Soyinka, has said it is best for his sanity to forget about the existence President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration. While he described the Lagos-Ibadan train project as “impressive”, the Nobel Laureate added that “it was long overdue.” Speaking with Kaftan TV on board the train service, Professor Soyinka said: “I don’t want to talk about Muhammadu Buhari’s administration,” he said when asked if the train service is a plus to the Buhari administration. “I think it is best for my sanity just to avoid that overall question. I can take bits and pieces of Nigeria’s present predicament but I think for one’s sense of balance, one must forget the existence of the Buhari administration.” “I think we are looking at a virtual transport revolution which is long overdue. I had an engagement in Lagos which I nearly postponed because of the road but for some time I have been saying wait a minute, this thing (train) is supposed to be running and I checked the timetables and I said if I catch the train in Abeokuta I would be in Lagos in an hour and a half, I would be picked up, run around quickly, do my business and here I am. “It is marvellous. That is what one has been doing in Europe. Why has it taken so long for that to happen here?” Speaking about the State of the Nation, Professor Wole Soyinka once said “no one is in charge of Nigeria.” Vanguard News Nigeria Nigeria’s Nobel laureate, Professor Wole Soyinka, has said that President Muhammadu Buhari could be in a trance. February 13, 2018 In "News" In a recent interview he granted Channels Television, Prof Wole Soyinka’s attempt at assessing the last general elections and the outcomes, where he praised the Buhari administration to high heavens and concluded dogmatically that Nigeria would have collapsed if former President Goodluck Jonathan had won the 2015 polls, muddled up… December 13, 2015 In "News" By Obi Nwakanma Wole Soyinka, writer and Noble laureate in literature, does not need any introduction. Nor does he need anyone to defend him, or speak for him, in any battle in which language – the word - is arrayed against cant. So, this column is not in defense of… April 5, 2020 In "The Orbit"