Gov. Abdullahi Sule of Nasarawa has approved the re-opening of all schools in the state with effect from Monday, Jan. 18. Hajiya Fatu Sabo, Commissioner for Education, Science and Technology, said this in a statement issued to newsmen on Friday in Lafia. According to the commissioner, the approval was given after due consultation with relevant stakeholders and the federal government. The commissioner said the ministry had put machinery on ground to ensure maximum compliance with the COVID-19 safety protocols, especially in public schools. She added that proprietors of private schools were directed to put safety measures in place and the government would setup machinery to ensure compliance. She added that all returning students were to undergo temperature checks and other protocols, before being allowed into their respective schools. “Officials from the ministry will embark on monitoring visits to ensure adherence to the protocols,” she stated. Sabo also called on parents to provide face masks for their children, as they would not be allowed into their respective schools, without it. “What we are mostly concerned with, is firstly, the safety of the students and staff. “The schools were fumigated, safety equipment such as hand sanitisers, face masks were provided. “We will also ensure physical distancing and regular hand washing,” she added She directed principals, head teachers and management of various schools in the state to commence academic activities without delay. (NAN) Vanguard News Nigeria Nasarawa state government says advocacy and immediate testing will now take place at motor parks across the state to sensitize travelers on safety steps to prevent the spread of Coronavirus (Covid-19) Mr Ahmed Yahaya, Commissioner for Health made this known at a new briefing held at the Nasarawa State Government… March 21, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" Tijjani Ahmed, the Nasarawa State Commissioner for Education, has urged proprietors of private schools to beef up security in their schools in order to protect their students and teachers September 14, 2017 In "News" Gov. Abdullahi Sule of Nasarawa state has stated his government’s resolve to provide potable water and sanitation facilities in public schools in the state. December 12, 2019 In "News"