The chief executive officer (CEO) of Asher Kings and Queens Restaurant in Kaduna state, Aisha Mercy Yakubu, has vowed to seek redress in court following the demolition of her restaurant and alleged lost of her one month old pregnancy. Aisha who in a statement obtained by journalists denied having any sex party in her restaurant, noted that her business was registered at the Corporate Affairs Commission, CAC, as a restaurant and an event centre and not as a hotel. Recall that the Kaduna State Urban Planning and Development Authority, KASUPDA, demolished her restaurant over alleged immoral act. Report had it that her restaurant would be used for a sex party. Reacting Aisha denied the report noting that she cannot descend so low to host a sex party in her restaurant. Read the statement below: “Before the event proper commenced, a friend of mine and I noticed an unusual movement around the main gate to the restaurant, as it was half opened to avoid a crowded environment. We approached the main gate and on getting there I saw two truckloads of heavily armed officers of the Nigeria Police Force (NPF). “I asked the team leader what was going on but he ignored my question and said he will explain to me when we get to the Police Station, Sabon Tasha Division. ”When we arrived at the Police station, my customer, who accompanied me to the station, enquired what the matter was and the police showed us a poster on a GSM phone belonging to one of the officers by name Inspector Felix. It was a poster of an event titled; KADUNA SEX PARTY, which the Police claimed the venue for the supposed ‘sex party’ was scheduled to hold at my restaurant, even though with no address of where it will take place on the poster. “I denied knowledge of that event as there was nothing of that sort taking place at the restaurant and I wouldn’t stoop so low to entertain such illicit activity at my place, but the police refused to belief me and had my friend and two of my staff detained for one night, one day, until the customer that had earlier hired the place for usage on that fateful day was also arrested the next day. Yakubu said she was released after paying N100,000 for bail to one police officer called Felix. “I noticed how incompetent the NPF were, I suggested to the them to call the number on the supposed ‘Kaduna Sex Party’ poster, which they immediately put a call through and a name came out using the True Caller App as MARVELLOUS AKPAN. “The Police asked me to pay a fee of N20,000 for them to do their job of tracking the user of the phone number, which I immediately paid them so that they will swing into action. “Marvellous Akpan was arrested the next. He was interrogated and he obliged to owning the phone number on the poster and printing of the poster which was posted on Social Media, assisted by a friend of his named Noah and one other guy. “On further interrogation, Mr Marvellous Akpan confessed to the Police that he doesn’t know me and has never being to my restaurant nor have any knowledge of its address. “Mr Chimeze,who had hired the place was released, summarily, after the successful arrest of Mr Akpan. Yakubu said on the day of the demolition of her property no prior notice was given, adding that she lost a month-old pregnancy because of trauma. “I watched them pull down the building without allowing me to remove any item before the demolition. As a result of the trauma, I lost my one month old pregnancy. “I plan to seek legal redress for defamation of my character and the loss of my properties in the building.” Vanguard News Nigeria A pregnant woman, Lauratu Abdullahi, 30, has asked a Sharia Court at Magajin Gari in Kaduna State to dissolve her marriage because her husband has not been performing his sexual duties to her. March 26, 2018 In "News" ...says state records 621 Violations of minors ...Over 100 in Court ...young boys not spared by sex predators By Ibrahim Hassan Determined to protect minors across the state, Hajiya Hafsat Mohammed Baba, Commissioner of Human Services and Social Development in Kaduna state has said that anyone caught violating minors in… April 11, 2020 In "News" A housewife, Aisha Musa, on Wednesday dragged her step-daughter, Hassana Ali, before a Sharia Court sitting in Magajin Gari, Kaduna State for shredding her clothes. ”In January, I simply asked my mate, Hafsa, to provide plates for the food I was sharing for the household. ”After I shared the food,… March 4, 2020 In "Metro"