As round 18 action from the 2020-21 La Liga season hots up this weekend, the top pick of matches for this round sees Atletico Madrid host Athletic Bilbao at Estadio Wanda Metropolitano later today. All the top-flight action from Spain will be live on dedicated Supersport and GOtv channels. The teams played to a 1-1 draw at San Mames Barria when they last met (in June 2020, soon after the league’s restart), with goals from Iker Muniain and Diego Costa. A similarly tight and tense affair is expected this time around. Captain of the Basque side, Muniain has called on his team to lift themselves for the second half of the season: “We have had difficulties this season, it is true, but we cannot let that distract us from our goal and look to claim as many points as possible.” Atletico coach Diego Simeone, meanwhile, hailed the influence of Frenchman Thomas Lemar, who has begun to justify his huge price tag. “It makes me very happy,” Simeone explained. “He Lemar has been working for a long time to show what a footballer he is and what he has inside. There are many games and the better the group is in general, the better we can compete.” Barcelona face a testing trip to Estadio Nuevo Los Carmenes to face Granada, while Osasuna will hope to upset champions Real Madrid at Estadio El Sadar – though Los Rojilos have not beaten the capital heavyweights in a top-flight match since way back in 2011. There will also be a potential thriller between Sevilla and Real Sociedad at Estadio Ramon Sanchez Pizjuan, while Samuel Chukwueze will look to bring his skills, pace and vision for Villarreal when they head to Celta Vigo. Vanguard News Nigeria Atletico Madrid set a new club record for draws in a single LaLiga season on Sunday, as they were held by Athletic Bilbao on their return to action. Playing for the first time since football in Spain was suspended due to the coronavirus pandemic, Diego Simeone's side had to settle… June 14, 2020 In "Sports" The latest incarnation of ‘El Clasico’, the famous rivalry between Real Madrid and Barcelona, takes centre stage in Round 26 of the 2018/19 La Liga season as the Spanish top flight will air live on DStv, Gotv this weekend. The 240th competitive match between Real and Barca is set to… March 1, 2019 In "News" Diego Costa watched on from the directors' box as Atletico Madrid leapfrogged Sevilla into second in La Liga thanks to goals from Yannick Carrasco and Antoine Griezmann in a 2-0 win at the Wanda Metropolitano on Saturday. September 23, 2017 In "News"