On Monday Nigeria’s first micro-investing platform, Trove, announced that it has added cryptocurrencies to its platform. This means Trove users will be able to buy and sell major cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, Ripple, Tron, and Dash directly via the Trove app, in addition to its existing local and foreign stocks, ETFs, and bonds already on the Trove platform. According to Oluwatomi Solanke, CEO & CO-Founder of Trove Finance, “what we have built is a real-time cryptocurrency trading platform designed with a user-first approach and is optimized for speed and security. We are excited about the possibilities that this opportunity opens up for our users.” With Trove adding cryptocurrencies to its platforms, we can expect an increase in the adoption of Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies. According to a report from Quartz Africa in December, Nigeria became the second-largest Bitcoin market in the world. Also, last week Bitcoin hit an all-time price of $41,000. According to Trove, their platform is built with users in mind, and will enable users to place market and limit orders for the different cryptocurrencies now available on the platform. Trove’s CEO, Oluwatomi, also commented that additional crypto-specific features will be available in the near future. About Trove Finance Trove Finance is Nigeria’s first micro-investing platform that allows users to trade Nigerian, Chinese and U.S. Stocks, ETF, Bonds and Cryptocurrencies. The best part is that you can trade with as low as ₦1,000, for Nigerian stocks and cryptocurrencies, and as low as $10 for foreign stocks.  The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) had, in a similar vein, early last year, issued a circular to banks and other financial institutions requiring them to take certain actions relating to digital currencies. Citing money laundering and terrorism financing, the CBN asked banks to “ensure that you do not use,… January 14, 2018 In "Business" Global peer-to-peer bitcoin marketplace, Paxful has announced  the addition of Tether (USDT) to its platform. The inclusion of USDT, the world’s largest stablecoin by market value, will assist users in combating a volatile market, protecting their assets, and expanding their portfolio. The industry has seen a surging demand for a… September 14, 2020 In "News" Chiji14xchange, an online trading platform designed specifically for  crypto currency trading and Gift cards exchange has come to established itself as number one in its areas of operations. March 24, 2020 In "News"