Chairman of Nigeria Football Supporters Club (NFSC), Rev Sam Ikpea has described those lined up for the maiden Sportsville award which holds January 30 in Lagos as credible people who have done well for sports in the country. Ikpea in a statement made available to the media in Lagos said the duo of Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers state and Edo State Deputy governor Rt Hon Philip Shaibu have ensured sports get adequate attention in their respective states. “You can’t talk about sports in Nigeria without mentioning Rivers and Edo states,” Ikpea stated. He was quick to add, ” NFF President Amaju Pinnick has been a blessing to Nigeria Football. The endless lawsuits and bickering holding back football has been arrested”. Dr Larry Izamoje is a sterling example of humility in service and promotion of Sports through his Sports Radio, BRILA FM. Also, Dr Rauf Ladipo has sacrificed everything for Nigerian football over the years, Anyansi Agwu of Enyimba has been hugely successful with Enyimba. Ebi Egbe, the CEO of Monimichelle has on his part been on a mission to change the face of Nigerian football facilities. Sportsville has a line up of credible sports people it intends to honor,” Ikpea concluded. The maiden Sportsville award would hold at the Ibis Royal hotel in Lagos. All the awardees have expressed joy over the award, with the Edo state deputy governor assuring that he would personally be in Lagos for the event. The 10 awardees are, Rivers state governor His Excellency Nyesom Wike (POS), Edo state deputy governor, Rt Hon Philip Shaibu, President of Nigeria Football Federation, Amaju Melvin Pinnick, NBBF boss, Engr Musa Kida, NOC president, Engr Habu Gumel, NWFL chairperson, Aisha Falode, Enyimba chairman, Felix Anyansi Agwu, and the CEO of Monimichelle Group Mr Ebi Egbe, veteran sports journalist cum media icon, Dr Larry Izamoje of Brilla FM and Super Eagles number one supporter, Dr Rauf Ladipo. Vanguard News Nigeria The Sam Ikpea-led board of the Nigeria Football Supporters Club (NFSC) has adopted the Onojie of Ekpoma Kingdom, Anthony Ehizojie Abumere II as its patron. April 26, 2018 In "Sports" A new dawn emerged for the Nigeria Football Supporters Club (NFSC) last Saturday as about 250 registered/authentic members of the club across the 19 state chapters of the country converged on the Teslim Balogun Stadium, Lagos to elect their choice of leaders into various offices of the club. The election… December 14, 2016 In "News" The Nigeria Football Supporters Club (NFSC) says the Minister of Youth and Sports, Solomon Dalung’s alleged interference in its internal affairs delayed the members visas to Rio 2016 Olympic Games. August 15, 2016 In "Sports"