A transfer to a more glamorous league may not be possible in the January transfer window but definitely on the cards in the summer and Genk are resigned to losing their star player. Racing Genk Technical director Dimitri De Condé believes the Nigeria international is drawing the attention of top teams in England and he’s backing the lanky striker to take the Premier League by storm if he moves to England in the summer transfer window. “He’s 27. He’s a top scorer. It’s not a goal in itself to sell him on. But if he continues to perform like this we will do everything we can to keep him. But there will be a lot of interest,” De Conde told HLN (via Voetbalkrant). “Paul Onuachu will score everywhere. Also in the Premier League.” De Condé pointed out that Onuachu caught the eye of Liverpool boss Jurgen Klopp when Genk faced off with the Premier League champions in last season’s Champions League. “In the Champions League he played strong against Liverpool last year, which has a fantastic defense. “That was his reference game, even Jürgen Klopp said afterwards that they were having a hard time with Paul,” he added. Onuachu is under contract with Racing Genk until the end of the 2023-2024 season. Vanguard News Nigeria On-loan Liverpool striker Taiwo Awoniyi netted his debut goal for Union Berlin in their 2-1 victory over Koln FC in the German Bundesliga. Awoniyi who joined Union Berlin this summer on a season-long loan from Liverpool, making it his seventh loan stint in search of game time, and increasing his… November 23, 2020 In "Sports" Genk manager Hannes Wolf has confirmed that his Nigerian-born player, Paul Onuachu will resume training today after recovering from the coronavirus. Last week, the lanky forward tested positive to Covid-19 on his return from Nigeria to the Luminus Arena ahead of their friendly game against Eendracht Termien, which was subsequently… July 17, 2020 In "Sports" Genk are pleased to have their African star players, Paul Onuachu and Eboue Kouassi back in Belgium to join the rest the squad for the 2021 season preparations. Onuachu and Kouassi left for their respective countries following the outbreak of the Coronavirus in March. Before the forced break, Onuachu scored… July 2, 2020 In "Sports"