Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta, has congratulated award-winning ace comedian, Godwin Komone, popularly known as “Gordons” as he clocked 50 on January  15 In a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Olisa Ifeajika, on Saturday in Asaba, Okowa said Gordons was a quintessential comedian whose contributions to the development of the entertainment industry, especially comedy, in Nigeria were remarkable. He extolled the comedian, who is a chief in Udu Kingdom in the state, for his patriotism, humility, mentorship and support to budding talents, adding that he remained a good ambassador of Delta. The governor remarked that as an actor, singer and compere, Gordons had brought his many years of experience to bear on his performance on stage, particularly with his “Gordons Comedy Clinic”. “As one of the funniest comedians Delta has produced, we are proud of your many achievements in the comedy and entertainment industry. “On behalf of the government and people of Delta, I congratulate an illustrious son of the state, Chief Godwin Komone, aka Gordons, on his 50th birth anniversary. “As you turn 50, your family, associates and admirers, have cause to be grateful to Almighty God for having granted you a life of wonderful accomplishments,” he said. He prayed God to bless Gordons’ path and make him a symbol for the motivation of youths in Delta and the country. Governor Ifeanyi Okowa has congratulated the doyen of comedy in Nigeria, Mr. Atunyota Akporobomerere on the Presidential Award of Excellence to him at the second National MSME Awards. August 7, 2019 In "News" The creative industry all over the world has never been a bed of roses for practitioners who constantly need to up their game to remain relevant. February 11, 2017 In "Showtime People" High profile comedian of international repute, Francis Agoda, popularly known as I Go Dye marks 39 years of age today, April 4, 2018. Born in Abraka, Delta State, Nigerian on April 4th 1979, through his artistry he has continued to promote global peace and child welfare. April 4, 2018 In "Entertainment"