Nollywood actress, Nazareth Jesse Bako has been appointed as the first female Mayor of the Actors Guild of Nigeria (AGN), Abuja chapter. The actress broke the news through her WhatsApp Status. She said, “This appointment is a remarkable one as I’m the first female Mayor/Chairperson of Actors Guild of Nigeria, Abuja. I’m also the first Youth to attain such a position in the Actors Guild of Nigeria as Mayor. This is a great honour to me and to all my good friends, supporters and fans.” “Sir, as I enjoin you to rejoice with me on this feather added to my cap, I humbly request for your utmost support in all ramifications to enable me discharge my duties for the betterment of our youth, Actors Guild of Nigeria and our dear nation at large,” she added. Nazareth Jesse Bako, is an Abuja-based Nigerian actress, from Kuje Area Council, Abuja, F.C.T., who was born in Jerusalem. She studied Business Administration and Management at the Federal Polytechnic, Bida, after which she got an admission into the University of Abuja where she studied Economics. She has featured in several Nollywood movies including ‘Girls Cot’,’ Erak and Eran’, ‘Share the Blood’ among several others. Vanguard News Nigeria It is not often you run into a northerner who is into the mainstream Nollywood instead of Kannywood. Nazareth Jesse Bako started her flourishing career in 2001, but got her break in 2004, when she starred in ‘Girls’ Cot’ alongside notable Nollywood faces like Genevieve Nnaji, Rita Dominic, Uche Jombo,… March 29, 2014 In "Showtime People" Nazareth Jesse Bako isn’t a new face on the scene, she started acting as far back as 2001 even though her first appearance in a movie came about in 2004. If there’s really someone with an interesting background, Naz, as she is called by friends, has one to be proud… August 29, 2015 In "Showtime People" No doubt, one of the most serious issues on the mind of Nollywood Fulani blooded beauty, Nazareth Jesse Bako is marriage. If nothing else has given her away, her father’s presence on her last birthday to pray for husband for her sure did. It’s been over a year and it… April 30, 2017 In "Entertainment"