PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari Thursday in Abuja restated the need for the international community to collectively and frontally confront the COVID-19 pandemic and other common challenges affecting the globe. President Buhari stated this while speaking at an event to receive Letters of Credence of the new Ambassadors of Egypt, Saudi Arabia and Argentina at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. He said, “We have common challenges that impact so much on our countries, which include Terrorism, Insurgency, Climate Change, Population Explosion, Human Trafficking, Corruption, Poverty, and Proliferation of Small Arms and Light Weapons. “On top of all these, the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic has come with different strains that pose additional challenge to the initial outbreak. These challenges underscore the need for the international community to work even more in concert to collectively identify appropriate ways and means to globally resolve these challenges.” President Buhari in a statement issued by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Chief Femi Adesina also expressed his admiration for the cooperation that Nigeria and the other three countries have enjoyed in other fora. According to him, “All three countries represented here enjoy excellent multilateral relations with us. In addition to the United Nations, the largest multilateral umbrella platform, we are also members of the G-77 and the South-South Cooperation which Nigeria, Argentina, Egypt and Saudi Arabia have used to advance our collective interests and causes. “Nigeria is proud to be associated with these platforms, for they have enabled us to work closely together with the Principal Representatives of these countries.” The Ambassadors, who presented their Letters of Credence, are: Mr Ihab Moustafa Awad Moustafa, Arab Republic of Egypt, Mr Faisal Ebraheem Alajrafi Alghamdi, the Royal Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, and Mr Alejandro Miguel Francisco Herrero,  the Republic of Argentina. The President reiterated to the Ambassadors the readiness of Nigeria “to work with you all to achieve global peace, food security and sustainable environment.” While wishing the envoys a successful tenure, he enjoined them to escalate the current level of relations: “On behalf of the Government and people of Nigeria, I urge you, in the course of your duties in Nigeria, to build on the successes of your predecessors and enhance the existing fraternal relations between our countries,” the President said. Speaking on behalf of others, Ambassador Ihab Moustafa expressed appreciation to the President for receiving them and accepting their letters of credence. He assured of their commitment “to work with Your Excellency’s government to further enhance and strengthen our countries’ friendship and partnership with the Federal Republic of Nigeria. We will count on your kind support and guidance to this end.” Vanguard News Nigeria By Johnbosco Agbakwuru - Abuja President Muhammadu Buhari on Thursday urged the international community and investors to take advantage of the country’s diversity in human and natural resources for investment. President Buhari said youth development, integration, and employment remain a priority for his administration. Speaking at a ceremony to receive… November 12, 2020 In "Business" President Muhammadu Buhari has urged the international community and investors to take advantage of the country’s diversity in human and natural resources for investment, saying youth development, integration and employment remain priority for his administration. The president stated this when he received the Letters of Credence of the Ambassadors of… November 13, 2020 In "News" Advocates uninhibited supply of safe coronavirus vaccines to all By Johnbosco Agbakwuru - Abuja ''If the United Nations system cannot mobilise the world to marshal out a truly effective and inclusive response to the coronavirus pandemic, then the United Nations would have failed in the core mission of giving expression,… September 23, 2020 In "News"