FORMER Executive Director, Projects of the Niger Delta Development Commission NDDC, Engr Samuel Adjogbe, has condoled with the Governor of Delta State, Dr Ifeanyi Okowa over the demise of his father, Sir Arthur Okorie Okowa and the Majority Leader and Chairman, House Committee on Information of the Delta State House of Assembly, Hon Tim Owhefere. Adjogbe in a statement issued by his Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Mr Ogheneovo Itefue, noted that the death of the duo was shocking and rather unfortunate. He said: “No doubt, the late Sir Arthur Okorie Okowa popularly called ‘AOU’ was a very cheerful and impactful father figure to all. Rare virtues of honesty and integrity must have earned him the highly respected chieftaincy title as the ‘Okpara-Uku’ of Owa-Alero in Ika North East Local Government Area”. Adjogbe also commiserated with the Governor over the demise of the Majority Leader and Chairman, House Committee on Information of the Delta State House of Assembly; Hon Tim Owhefere, describing him as one whose committed service to nation, society and family won’t be forgotten. “My thoughts and prayers are with the families of the duo. May the good Lord grant the respective families the fortitude to bear the irreparable loss. They would be sorely missed”. Vanguard News Nigeria The Ajogbe family of Evwreni community, Ughelli North Local Government Area of Delta State, have called on the Inspector General of Police and Governor Ifeanyi Okowa to investigate and bring to book, those behind the untimely death of two young men, failed assassination attempts, destruction of properties and displacement of… July 1, 2020 In "News" By Festus Ahon IMMEDIATE past Executive Director, Projects of the Niger Delta Development Commission NDDC, Engr Samuel Adjogbe,  has condoled with former Senate Leader and Chairman of NDDC, Sen. Victor Ndola-Egba over the demise of his wife, Amaka. The deceased was reported to have been involved in a ghastly motor… November 21, 2020 In "News" IMMEDIATE past Executive Director, Projects of the Niger Delta Development Commission, NDDC, Engr. Dr. Samuel Adjogbe, FNSE has described as false and malicious reports in an online medium that he was invited by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC over N60 billion emergency contracts allegedly awarded under four months. September 22, 2019 In "News"