After announcing the death of Lagos State University, LASU, pioneer Vice-Chancellor, VC, Professor Folabi Olumide, at 81 years of age, on Friday, the current VC, Professor Olanrewaju Fagbohun(SAN), named the institution’s health centre after him. According to Fagbohun, as a mark of honour, respect and appreciation in respect of his achievements during his stint as the first Vice-Chancellor of the University, the University Management rechristened the LASU Health Centre as “Folabi Olumide Health Centre”. Fagbohun, in a statement, said Professor Olumide died in the early hours on Friday,  January 8, after a brief illness. According to the LASU VC, “On behalf of the University Governing Council, the Senate, University Management, staff and students, with deep regret, I hereby announce the passing away of its first Vice-Chancellor, Professor Folabi Olumide. “The Vice-Chancellor commiserates with his family, the LASU community, friends and associates on this irreplaceable loss. He prays that the Almighty God gives the family and all, the soothing comfort to bear this great loss.” “Late Professor Folabi Olumide, an academic and Medical Surgeon would be remembered for being the pioneer Vice-Chancellor of Lagos State University, between 1983 and 1988, among other notable feats.” Vanguard News Nigeria The outgoing Vice Chancellor of the Lagos State University, LASU Ojo, Prof. Olanrewaju Fagbohun, SAN, on Friday recalled how a small group of people in the university community almost frustrated his efforts at repositioning the institution by trying to sabotage his programmes and policies. December 18, 2020 In "News" Lagos—The Lagos State University, LASU, Joint Committee of Senate and Governing Council had selected three out of the nine professors initially shortlisted to contest for the post of the Vice-Chancellor. December 10, 2015 In "News" Since Tuesday, November 1, 2011, when Professor John Oladapo Obafunwa, became the 11th Vice Chancellor of the Lagos State University, LASU, Ojo, it has been an unending face-off between him and the institution’s staff unions comprising of the Academic Staff Union of Universities, ASUU; Senior Staff Association of Universities, SSANU;… December 2, 2014 In "Education"