Lautaro Martinez scored a hat-trick as Inter Milan kicked off 2021 in blistering form with a 6-2 win over lowly Crotone on Sunday to take top spot in Serie A. Inter claimed an eighth consecutive league win to move two points ahead of AC Milan who travel to midtable Benevento later on Sunday with champions Juventus hosting Udinese. Martinez and Romelu Lukaku proved decisive for the northeners, the strike duo being involved in five of Inter’s goals. Antonio Conte’s side had been pegged back 2-2 at the break with Niccolo Zanellato breaking through with a 12th-minute header for the promoted Calabrians who are second from bottom with the worst attack in the league. But Martinez picked up a Lukaku cross to pull the hosts level eight minutes later. Martinez had a role in Inter’s second just after half an hour when Crotone defender Luca Marrone turned the ball into his own net under pressure from the Argentina forward. Vladimir Golemic put the sides level six minutes later after Arturo Vidal fouled Arkadiusz Reca, with Conte replacing the Chilean midfielder after the break. Martinez pulled Inter ahead before the hour connecting with a Marcelo Brozovic through ball and headed in his third with 12 minutes to go off a rebound. Lukaku blasted in his 50th goal in the Inter jersey after 64 minutes before going off after taking a knock to his thigh, before Achraf Hakimi sealed the win with three minutes to go. “There is great desire and it shows,” said Conte as Inter target their first Serie A title since 2010 with their European campaign over this season. “It’s important to continue like this, we produce and create a lot, we score a lot of goals, it’s a pity for the goals conceded.” Vanguard News Nigeria Romelu Lukaku fired Inter Milan back top of Serie A with the second goal of a 2-0 derby win that extended their perfect start to the season at the expense of city rivals AC Milan. September 21, 2019 In "News" Lautaro Martinez and Romelu Lukaku both scored twice as Inter Milan stormed into a first European final in 10 years with a 5-0 thrashing of Shakhtar Donetsk in Dusseldorf. August 20, 2020 In "Sports" Inter Milan player, Romelu Lukaku has outshined Christiano Ronaldo's Serie record of 12 goals in first 18 matches. Lukaku has scored 14 goals in his first 18 league matches. C. Ronaldo earlier warned Lukaku that Serie A is the hardest league to score. The 26-year-old (Lukaku) who joined Milan from… January 8, 2020 In "Sports"