Vice-Chancellor, University of Lagos, Prof. Oluwatoyin Ogundipe, yesterday, urged Nigerians to assist indigent candidates to get computer tabs, as the university gets set for the non-physical post-UTME test. Ogundipe said this during an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria, NAN. According to him, in the face of the resurgence of the Coronavirus pandemic, all academic activities of the institution, including examinations, would be online. His words: “We are to conduct our post-Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (Post-UTME) test on Feb. 15 to Feb. 23; that is, it will run for about nine days. “This examination is going to be an e-examination such that wherever the candidates are, they do not need to come to campus. It is simple and convenient. “We looked at the issue of indigent candidates; we then decided to see how we can carry them along. Right now, we have started talking to some friends of the university and alumni to see how we can get tablets that we can give them. “We have got the number of these indigent candidates registered for the post-UTME test, and they are above 200.” Ogundipe said that the candidates would need the tablets not just for the post-UTME test but also to facilitate other e-learning processes. “We are talking to the alumni president and friends of the university to get these tablets to facilitate e-learning processes”, he said. He said that over 50,000 candidates applied for admission into the university in the 2020)2021 academic session, with about 22,000 scoring 200 marks and above. According to him, 21,955 candidates have so far paid for the conduct of the post-UTME test. “It is the first time that we are conducting this type of examination, and it is such that these candidates must have their laptops with cameras. “If they do not have a camera attached to their laptops, they will not be allowed to participate in the examination. “We expect the results to come out within one week.” Vanguard News Nigeria The Vice-Chancellor, University of Lagos, Prof. Oluwatoyin Ogundipe, has appealed to public-spirited Nigerians to assist indigent candidates to get tablets, as the university gets set for the non-physical post-UTME test. Ogundipe made the appeal during an interview with  Newsmen on Sunday in Lagos. According to him, in the face of… January 24, 2021 In "News" No fewer than 330 visually-impaired candidates, yesterday, jostled for the 700,000 admission spaces in tertiary institutions as they sat for the Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination, UTME, in Lagos, Kano, Abuja, Enugu and Benin centres. March 20, 2018 In "Education" No fewer that 4,800 university admission seekers have applied for the School of Foundation, University of Lagos, in the 2018/2019 academic session. August 10, 2018 In "News"