Over thirty-Seven (37) United States Lawmakers, Lady Gaga and other celebrities have called for the impeachment of President Donald Trump, following the protest that took place at the Capitol hill, Washington. Trump has been accused of instigating the riot. Report had it that a lady yet to be identified was shot dead during the protest. About 50 police officers were said to have been injured by the rioters. Properties were vandalized and U.S experienced a total breakdown of law and order on Wednesday. In view of all these, Ilhan Omar, a Democrat from Minnesota, and 36 other members accused Trump of committing high crimes and misdemeanors. Also, Lady Gaga described the event as an act of ‘terrorism’, insisting that Trump should be impeached. According to her, “I hope we focus to impeach Trump so Congress has the constitutional authority to possibly disqualify him from future election—the #25thAmendment doesn’t disqualify him. He incited domestic terror—how much more violence needs to happen? This is terrorism.” Read below the article supporting Trumps impeachment: I hope we focus to impeach Trump so Congress has the constitutional authority to possibly disqualify him from future election—the #25thAmendment doesn’t disqualify him. He incited domestic terror—how much more violence needs to happen? This is terrorism. — Lady Gaga (@ladygaga) January 8, 2021  Articles of Impeachment for introduction, so proud of everyone co-leading this effort with us. We need to move quickly to remove this President from office. pic.twitter.com/vbZtA7g6fc — Ilhan Omar (@IlhanMN) January 7, 2021  Articles of impeachment have already been drafted and are ready for introduction. They were prepared and finalized by @IlhanMN while she was extracted in a secure location, and members are signing on. pic.twitter.com/FJCpmp64OV — Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (@AOC) January 7, 2021  Let’s go. I’m in. https://t.co/bGEgA73RuP — Jamaal Bowman (@JamaalBowmanNY) January 7, 2021  We should not be adjourned. We must reconvene to proceed with articles of impeachment immediately. https://t.co/Bv126jUKnY — Jamaal Bowman (@JamaalBowmanNY) January 7, 2021  Katy Perry has predicted a "revolution" is coming follow the election of Donald Trump.The 'Roar' singer In a series of tweets, she wrote: 'WE WILL NEVER BE SILENCED ... POWER TO THE PEOPLE ... RISE UP ... THE REVOLUTION IS COMING ... (sic)' The pop beauty has been a loyal… November 9, 2016 In "Music" Outgoing United States President Donald Trump said he was “outraged by the violence, lawlessness and mayhem” after a group of his supporters stormed the Capitol and forced a halt to a Congressional joint sitting. Trump said demonstrators “defiled the seat of democracy” and added “to those who broke the law,… January 8, 2021 In "Foreign" World leaders condemn 'assault on democracy' at US Capitol World leaders and governments on Wednesday expressed shock and outrage at the storming of the US Capitol in Washington by supporters of President Donald Trump. - Britain - British Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Twitter condemned the "disgraceful scenes in U.S.… January 7, 2021 In "Foreign"