Chelsea will reportedly fire club legend and coach, Frank Lampard following a poor run of form that does not reflect how busy the club was during the transfer window that saw it spend over $292 million on players, Telegraph reports. Confirmation could come as soon as today after Chelsea players were told not to report to the training ground until this afternoon. Former PSG coach Thomas Tuchel will reportedly take over from Lampard who has spent just 18 months into the three-year contract he was given when he was appointed in the summer of 2019. Football transfers specialist, Fabrizio Romano confirming the news tweeted, “Frank Lampard is set to be sacked, as @Matt_Law_DT reported today. Chelsea board ‘furious’ and ‘disappointed’ for weeks. “Allegri has never been in touch with Chelsea board in the last weeks. Thomas Tuchel has been offered many times and he’s the favourite as German manager – also to ‘help’ Werner and Havertz. Lampard is gone.” Frank Lampard is set to be sacked, as @Matt_Law_DT reported today. Chelsea board ‘furious’ and ‘disappointed’ for weeks.  #CFC #Lampard — Fabrizio Romano (@FabrizioRomano) January 25, 2021  Allegri has never been in touch with Chelsea board in the last weeks. Thomas Tuchel has been offered many times and he’s the favourite as German manager – also to ‘help’ Werner and Havertz. Lampard is gone.  #CFC #Chelsea https://t.co/JBjeVnCWMd — Fabrizio Romano (@FabrizioRomano) January 25, 2021  Chelsea has won just two of their last eight Premier League matches and are currently ninth on the league table – a position that does not guarantee European football for the next season. Vanguard News Nigeria A report claims that Chelsea have held talks with several candidates as they prepare to give Frank Lampard the boot at Stamford Bridge. The Blues have only mustered four points from a possible 18 in the Premier League over the last six matches, having looked like possible title contenders earlier… January 14, 2021 In "Sports" By Emmanuel Okogba Chelsea Football Club has parted ways with coach, Frank Lampard after a recent poor run of form, Vanguard reports. The club made the announcement on Monday confirming earlier reports that the club legend would soon be shown the exit door. The club described the decision as very… January 25, 2021 In "Sports" Chelsea coach Frank Lampard says he is amused rather than annoyed by  Jurgen Klopp's criticism of his summer spending, pointing out that Liverpool splashed the cash on the road to Premier League glory. Lampard has invested around £200 million ($257 million) on Timo Werner, Kai Havertz, Hakim Ziyech and Ben… September 14, 2020 In "Sports"