President Muhammadu Buhari has accepted the immediate resignation of the Service Chiefs, and their retirement from service. This was contained in a statement issued by the Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Chief Femi Adesina in Abuja Tuesday. According to the statement: “Those involved are the Chief of Defence Staff, General Abayomi Olonisakin; Chief of Army Staff, Lt-Gen. Tukur Buratai; Chief of Naval Staff, Vice Admiral Ibok Ekwe Ibas; and Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar. “President Buhari thanks the outgoing Chiefs for what he calls their “overwhelming achievements in our efforts at bringing enduring peace to our dear country,” wishing them well in their future endeavours. “The new Service Chiefs are Major-General Leo Irabor, Chief of Defence Staff; Major-General I. Attahiru, Chief of Army Staff; Rear Admiral A. Z. Gambo, Chief of Naval Staff; and Air-Vice Marshal I.O Amao, Chief of Air Staff. “The President congratulates them new Service Chiefs, and urges them to be loyal and dedicated in the discharge of their responsibilities.” Afenifere Meanwhile, reacting to the Service Chiefs’ sack, Afenifere said it was nothing special. In a statement, the pan-Yoruba socio-political organisation said President Muhammadu Buhari had done nothing special. According to Afenifere’s National Publicity Secretary, Yinka Odumakin: “He (Buhari) has not done a special favour to make us jump in joy. “The nepotic way he has handled the security sector has created damage that will take a lot time to repair if we shall ever be able.” Vanguard News Nigeria President Mohammadu Buhari , Monday , appointed new Service Chiefs and the National Security Adviser. Major-General Babagana Monguno (rtd.) is now the new National Security Adviser, while Major-General Abayomi Gabriel Olonishakin is Chief of Defence Staff. July 13, 2015 In "News" The Senate on Tuesday announced the receipt of a letter from President Muhammadu Buhari, requesting the confirmation of Service Chiefs, recently appointed by him. President of the Senate, Bukola Saraki, read the letter at plenary as the Red Chamber resumed after five weeds recess. Saraki said that the letter for confirmation… July 28, 2015 In "News" The Chief of Army Staff, Lt.-Gen. Tukur Buratai has approved new postings and redeployments of some senior officers to different divisions, units and formations, to rekindle the spirit of professionalism and enhance productivity. January 10, 2021 In "News"