No fewer than eight persons including students of the Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba Akoko, in Ondo state were feared crushed to death by an articulated truck. The report had it that ten others who sustained serious injuries have been rushed to a nearby hospital for medical attention. Vanguard learnt that the incident occurred at about 6 pm on Saturday. The deceased have equally been taken to the mortuary of the general hospital. Eyewitness account said that the truck belonging to Dangote company told newsmen that ” the trailer carrying cement lost control due to brake failure and rammed into business centres and shops near the school gate. The truck which reportedly lost control due to brake failure was said to be coming from lkare Akoko and while descending the hill few metres to university gate had a brake failure and rammed into the business centres, shops and buildings along the roadside. ” lt crushed all the students who were busy at the business centres, the passersby and other shop owners few metres away from the main gate of the university. Vanguard learnt that the students that were crushed to death who just resumes were at the different business centres to make photocopies and type their assignments ahead of their examination. A source said that eight dead bodies were recovered from under the trailer by sympathisers while the rescue operation was still going on One of the students, Bolatito Arogundo confirmed the incident and said the students were already preparing for their coming examination. She asked that speed breaker be installed on the road to slow down the speed of the motorists and caution them against recklessness driving. The student also urged truck drivers to always ensure that their vehicles were in good condition before putting them on the road. The police image maker, Tee Leo lkoro confirmed that eight dead bodies have so far recovered from the accident. Ikoro added that evacuations were still on and that those injured have been rushed to the hospital. The university spokesperson Victor Akinpelumi could not be reached as at the time of filling in the report. Vanguard News Nigeria By Dayo Johnson - Akure NO fewer than seven persons were feared killed in multiple road accidents that occurred Sunday night in Akungba Akoko, Akoko South West area of Ondo State. This is coming barely three days after another crash occurred in the area where five persons died. Vanguard gathered… September 7, 2020 In "News" By Dayo Johnson - Akure THREE persons were feared dead in Akungba, Akoko South-West council area of Ondo State in a crash involving three trucks. Several others were reportedly injured in the crash along the lkare/ Owo highway. The three truck went up in flames following the impact of the… December 11, 2020 In "News" Dayo Johnson - Akure EIGHT persons feared dead as a trailer reportedly rammed into a market in Akungba in Akoko South West area of Ondo State Saturday. Eye witnesses' account said that the driver of the trailer which was loaded with rice was coming from Ikare axis of the town… October 31, 2020 In "Metro"