Algeria’s president Friday signed the country’s new constitution into law, his office said, after the document was approved in a November referendum on record low turnout as its leader received treatment abroad for Covid-19. President Abdelmadjid Tebboune, who returned to Algeria this week after two months in Germany, had promoted the new constitution as the “cornerstone of the new Algeria”, as he sought to turn the page on the long-running Hirak mass protest movement. But the document received the backing of less than 15 percent of the electorate, in a November vote overshadowed by the novel coronavirus pandemic and following Hirak calls for a boycott. The Hirak first launched vast street demonstrations in early 2019 to oppose then-president Abdelaziz Bouteflika’s bid for a fifth term in office. Following his resignation that April, the Hirak kept up the pressure to demand a full overhaul of the ruling system in place since the North African country’s 1962 independence from France. The new constitution was pitched as responding to the demands of the Hirak, but keeps in place Algeria’s presidential regime and expands the powers of the army, a central pillar of the state. Tebboune, 75, on Thursday approved Algeria’s 2021 budget and is hoping to launch a vaccination campaign against the novel coronavirus, using the Sputnik V jab produced by its Russian ally, as early as this month. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria Algerians are set to vote Sunday in a constitutional referendum the government touts as heralding a "new republic", but a long-running protest movement rejects the exercise as window-dressing. Observers see the constitution as the centrepiece of now-hospitalised President Abdelmadjid Tebboune's strategy to neutralise the Hirak movement, which staged vast demonstrations… October 29, 2020 In "Foreign" President Abdelmadjid Tebboune returned to Algeria Tuesday after a two-month absence in Germany, where he received treatment for Covid-19, ending a period of uncertainty in a country facing a health, political and economic crises. "It is hard to be far from one's country and even harder for someone who has… December 30, 2020 In "Foreign" Algeria's President Abdelmadjid Tebboune has the Covid-19 illness, his office said Tuesday, ending days of speculation after he was hospitalised in Germany following cases of the virus among his staff. Tebboune, who is 74 and a heavy smoker, "continues to receive treatment in a specialised German hospital after catching the… November 4, 2020 In "Foreign"