The Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, yesterday gave reason for its refusal to support Nigerian President of Igbo extraction, saying that all the people being prepared for the position are stooges that will be used against the interest of Ndigbo, Biafrans and the Biafra agitating groups. IPOB also alleged that the people at the forefront of the agitation were people who openly worked against late Dr Alex Ekwueme, at Jos PDP convention for the candidature of the President of Nigeria under PDP in 1999, the brightest chance Ndigbo had for the position. IPOB in a statement by its Media and Publicity Secretary, Emma Powerful alleged that what such people did to Late Dr Ekwueme was similarly, done by their likes to Mr Peter Obi, in 2019 when he contested with Alhaji Abubarka Atiku as his running mate, alleging that they conspired and did not support or campaign for Mr Obi despite being in the same political party – PDP, with him. IPOB, therefore, said that the same people shouting President of Igbo extraction today will turn round to sabotaged their own people tomorrow in favour of a non-Igbo because of selfish interest especially with dangling of a little carrot to their face. IPOB statement read, “We cannot support any person that will kill us, that will mean the end of Biafra emancipation as we know. “It is still fresh in our minds what transpired at Jos PDP convention when the Late Dr Alex Ekwueme contested for the candidature of the President of Nigeria under PDP in 1999. “Then the likes of Jim Nwobodo, Orji Uzo Kalu and virtually every other Igbo delegate at that convention voted against him. These Igbo men sabotaged Igbo presidency then, what has changed since 1999 that will make them come out now to shamefully clamour for the same Igbo presidency they publicly rejected in 1999? “Similarly, when Mr Peter Obi, in 2019 was contesting with Alhaji Abubarka Atiku as his running mate, Governor Dave Umahi and his co-travellers in conspiratory business did not support or campaign for him despite being in the same political party-PDP. “We are surprised that these people shouting President of Igbo extraction today but sabotaged their own people yesterday think we have forgotten, they also think others will support them when it is their turn. “Besides, if these myopic and self-centred fellows think producing the President of Nigeria will solve the problem of Ndigbo, when Goodluck Jonathan, an Ijaw man from South-South was Nigeria’s President for six years, what did he do for the East in general and Ijaw people in particular? “The same Northern oligarchy that did not allow him to operate freely will still not allow any stooge they may eventually appoint from Igboland to succeed. So, it makes no sense clamouring for what won’t proffer any solution to our problems. “The few major roads built in South-East and South-South were done not by Igbo man, yet none of these traitors masquerading as Igbo leaders today has been able to compel their slave masters to rehabilitate them. Most of these self-acclaimed Igbo and Old Eastern region leaders are caliphate bred traitors and we cannot trust them.” Vanguard News Nigeria Following the proscription of the Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, and the alleged marginalization of the Igbo in Nigeria, intaandem with IPOB’s quests for an independent nation, a social-political organization, Ohanaeze Ndigbo Youth Council Worldwide, Wednesday urged Nigerians, especially the Igbo extraction to support the 2023 Igbo Presidency, noting that… October 9, 2019 In "News" The All Progressive Grand Alliance, APGA, has slammed the leader of Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB , Nnamdi Kanu over his call on Anambra State people to shun the forthcoming governorship poll in the state. June 28, 2017 In "News" A leading pan Igbo organisation, Igbo Leadership Development Foundation (ILDF), has lambasted Senator Gabriel Suswan, representing Benue North-East on his statement that the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) would zone the office of President to the North again in 2023, advising him not to insult Igbo sensibilities. July 8, 2020 In "News"