Delta Ijaw and Itsekiri communities in Warri North Local Government Area of Delta State, have threatened to embark on violence protest against ELCREST/NPDC Operators of OML 40 over failure to fully recognised them as host communities. In a statement by the communities’ chairmen,  Monday Agbeyi, Abigborodo; Roland Kiri, Asisabubotie; Dennis Okoro, Ubebrakui; People Sanki, Agbiwagha; Bewo Tebedoh, Okofagbene; John Osifo, Erekongha and IK Saturday, Ojudogbene and addressed to Governor Ifeanyi Okowa, they frowned at the continuous neglect of the communities by ELCREST/NPDC. They said that the resolution by the Delta State government representatives, communities and other stakeholders for ELCREST/NPDC Operators of OML 40 to offer six casual workers to the six communities, provide one surveillance boat fitted with 75 Horse Power engine for the six communities and fully recognise the six communities as host were almost ignored. The communities explained in the statement that ELCREST/NPDC only implemented the resolution for only one month and later informed them that some indigenes of a sister ethnic nationality allegedly advised them not to honour the agreement with the Ijaw communities. According to the letter, despite several meetings held thereafter, to proffer solution to payment of compensations, outstanding monthly salaries and recognition issue, ELCREST/NPDC failed to meet up with all the resolutions. “Your Excellency sir, the unbecoming attitude and unacceptable behaviour of ELCREST/NPDC could lead to more protests and even violent protests. So, help prevail on them to adhere to all the resolutions reached to avoid breach of the existing peace in the riverine areas of Delta State,” the statement added. Vanguard News Nigeria WARRI—ABOUT 67 Ijaw, Itsekiri and Ilaje coastal communities in Delta and Ondo States are facing perilous times, following oil and gas exploration/exploitation activities of oil firms, which have severely affected their eco-systems. While some of the communities are reportedly sinking, others are facing contamination of their sources of water supply and… September 12, 2017 In "News" ASABA—CRISIS is brewing between Atesuo, an Ijaw community in Warri North Local Government Area, Delta State and Nigerian Petroleum Development Company, NPDV/ELCREST JV over mobilization of personnel and equipment for dredging, drilling and installation of pipelines by the company allegedly without appropriate negotiation with the villagers. March 13, 2019 In "News" SOME oil producing communities in Oil Mining and License, OML 40 in Warri North Local Government Area of Delta State have given five days ultimatum to Etland Oil and Gas Plc, Elcrest Exploration and Production Limited and the operators of Nigeria Petroleum Development Company, NDPC, to recognised them as host… July 31, 2018 In "News"