THE Commandant of Oyo State Security Network Agency, Operation Amotekun, Col. Olayinka Olayanju (retd), yesterday, explained that there were no clashes between his men and Fulani herdsmen in Ibarapa land and Oke Ogun axis of the state. The commandant, who spoke with newsmen in Ibadan, said that his men, Fulani herders, hunters and vigilante groups launched six operations in four local government areas, noting that the team in Aiyete was attacked in the forest by suspected bandits, three of whom were killed by his men. “Contrary to any report you might have come across, there was no clash whatsoever between Fulani herdsmen and Amotekun in Ibarapa or Oke Ogun axis of Oyo State. “What happened was that we launched clearance operations in different locations around the thick forests of the four local governments that have suffered kidnapping and wanton killings in recent times. “When our men entered the forests at Aiyede, they were attacked and a gun battle ensued, which led to the death of three of the attackers. One of our men sustained injuries. “It was not a clash with the Fulani, because they (Fulani) were part of the planning of the operation and we raided the forests together. “We were in touch with Seriki who is the leader of the Fulani in the area. Even after our men were withdrawn on Saturday afternoon, we got reports that some Fulani were kidnapped in one location close to the area of operation. So they are working with us because they are also victims of the dastardly acts of kidnapping in the area. “The incessant kidnapping and wanton destruction of life necessitated the planning of a clearance operation in Lanlate, Igbo Ora, Igangan, Iganna and Aiyegun general areas in Ibarapa East, Ibarapa Central and Ibarapa North as well as Iwajowa Local Government Areas. “There were six teams in all comprising members of Amotekun, Vigilantes, Hunters and Miyetti Allah Vigilante. “All the six teams had elements of these groups (joint team). However, at Igbo Ora, one of the teams had an encounter with two armed men, effected their arrest and recovered one double barrel rifle. “All suspects and weapons were handed over to the Divisional Police Officer, DPO, Magoro Police Station, Igbo-Ora, at about 9 a.m. on Saturday. “In a related development, another team was attacked at about 9.30 a.m. in Igangan forest, Ibarapa North, while on the clearance operations at a settlement. The attack was repelled, resulting in serious injury to one member of the Vigilante Group of Nigeria (VGN) and three other suspects. Two Dane guns were recovered at the scene. “In Iwajowa council area, one of the teams also arrested a kidnap kingpin, operating around Aiyegun axis, with a locally made pistol and cartridges.” “The operation was suspended at about 12 noon on Saturday to allow for further stock-taking.” Vanguard News Nigeria Seven people have reportedly been killed at Ayete in Ibarapa North Local Government Area of Oyo State when Officers and Fulani herders clashed in fresh violence. January 10, 2021 In "News" THREE persons were feared dead during a bloody clash between youths and Amotekun operatives at Tapa in Oyo State when the latter attempted to stop the youths in organising carnival which has been banned in the state. January 8, 2021 In "News" Urge southwest govs to expedite action on Amotekun Operation Condemn attack on Ondo community, others By Adeola Badru Federal and state governments in Nigeria have been called upon to wake up quickly to tackle the security challenges facing the nation in the hands of those terrorising the country. The National… April 5, 2020 In "News"