The Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF), has faulted Gov. Yahaya Bello of Kogi’s rejection of COVID-19 vaccines. Gov. Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State and Chairman, NGF said this in a statement on Thursday in Abuja after the forum’s first virtual meeting for 2021. Fayemi said that the governors met and deliberated on matters of national importance, particularly the procurement and administration of COVID-19 vaccines in the country. Bello had kicked against the COVID-19 vaccination, saying it was meant to kill people. “On the ill-fated pronouncement made by a member of the forum regarding the COVID-19 vaccine in a national daily, the forum totally and categorically dissociated itself from the statement. “The forum emphasised that it will continue to be informed and guided by science and will ensure that every decision it takes will help retains public and professional trust and is not compromised by conflicts of interest,” he said. Fayemi also briefed the governors on his meeting with Dr Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, Chairperson of the Board of the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization (GAVI), on the rollout of the COVAX facility. “COVAX is a global risk-sharing mechanism co-led by GAVI, the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI), and the World Health Organization (WHO) to facilitate pooled procurement and the equitable distribution of COVID-19 vaccines across developing countries,” he said. Vanguard News Nigeria By Henry Umoru Governors, under the aegis of Nigeria Governors Forum, NGF, yesterday took a swipe at their colleague in Kogi State, Yahaya Bello, for saying COVID- 19 vaccines were designed to kill people, saying that he was on his own. Rising from the 24th Teleconference meeting of the forum,… January 22, 2021 In "News" The Nigeria Governors' Forum, NGF, has said Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State is entitled to his opinion over the reality or otherwise of the COVID-19 pandemic and the purpose of the vaccines, but that he should not risk the lives of the citizens of his state. January 21, 2021 In "Politics" …Mind your utterances, APC group warns gov By Soni Daniel & Luminous Jannamike Governor of Kogi State, Yahaya Bello, has discouraged the use of COVID-19 vaccine, saying the jabs are meant to kill people. But the All Progressives Congress, APC, Mandate Defenders in a swift reaction yesterday, challenged the governor… January 20, 2021 In "News"