Paul Okoye (now known as Rude Boy) of the seperated P-Square music group has tested positive for coronavirus (COVID-19). The singer announcing the development on his Instagram noted he has been under medical treatment for the condition since the last ten (10) days. In his post, Rude Boy using the F-word to describe his frustration said; “Covid is REAL!!! I know as typical Nigerian or African is very hard to believe some will say “experience is the best teacher oh well , the experience and the teacher has visited me and they’ve been dealing with me for more than 10days now sh*t is not funny ….. worst sickness ever!!! …… y’all better be careful out there if you like believe me , if you like don’t believe me you can as well wait for your own experience by playing ignorance. Goodluck. God help us all.”   A post shared by Rudeboy (@iamkingrudy)  Vanguard had in July 2020 had reported how Rude Boy’s brother, Peter Okoye (now MrP), narrated his ordeal, as he and his family recovered from the infection. According to Peter, he (Peter) had COVID-19 for about three weeks. Vanguard News Nigeria By David Royal Lola Omotayo-Okoye, the wife of Nigerian Music star, Peter Okoye, has narrated her experience with coronavirus. The mother-of-two described coronavirus as a horrible experience that she wouldn’t wish upon her worst enemy in a video she shared on Instagram on Wednesday. She wrote “I want to thank… July 2, 2020 In "News" Until late last year, when they finally went their separate ways, Peter and Paul Okoye, popularly known as P-Square used to be the favourite of many lovers of contemporary Nigerian music. But the same cannot be said of the twins today no matter how hard they try to make their… August 10, 2018 In "Music" By David Royal Popular Nigerian singer, Peter Okoye, has revealed how his nuclear family tested positive for the novel Coronavirus and battled it for three weeks. The former Psquare member who now goes by the name Mr P made this known on his verified Instagram account via videos. In one… June 27, 2020 In "News"