Sule Lamido, a former governor of Jigawa State, has said the Fulani were being persecuted in Nigeria because President Muhammadu Buhari is of the same ethnic stock. Lamido made the comment, Thursday, against the backdrop of allegations against Fulani herdsmen in the South West region. Herders have been accused of kidnapping for ransom and killing Yoruba indigenes in the South West. Rotimi Akeredelu, governor of Ondo State, had issued a seven-day ultimatum to herders to vacate Ondo forest reserves, citing rising cases of insecurity in the state. In Oyo State, Sunday Adeyemo, a youth leader better known as Sunday Igboho, also issued an eviction notice to Fulani herdsmen in Ibarapa axis of the state. Making reference to the ultimatums, Lamido said Fulani people were being treated unjustly for being of the same tribe as the President, even though not all of them support Buhari. He said: “They are reading Fulani through Buhari, who is also a Fulani. They failed to understand that not every Fulani supports Buhari. Even me, I am of the Fulani tribe but did not vote for Buhari. But, what Fulani are going through in this country is unfortunate. We are being persecuted, abused, endangered, called names, just because Buhari is one of us. This is not fair. This is unjust. “Today Nigerians are so blindfolded by the hate and apparent dislikes of Fulanis because of President Buhari’s misgovernance, forgetting that not all Fulanis voted for him and or like him.” Lamido asked why those who helped the president secure power in 2015 have kept mum over the travails of “Buhari’s people” in the South-western region. “Why are those from the South, who brought Buhari to power in 2015 failed to defend his people. Where are the Tinubus, Fasholas, Amaechis, Ngiges, Soyinkas, Rochas, among others? Why can’t they protect Buhari’s people?” Lamido queried. South West governors and leaders have, however, denied allegations of targeting the Fulani. Vanguard News Nigeria *Says romance between Buhari and Tinubu has ended By Abdulmumin Murtala, Kano The attack on Fulanis in the Southwest is leading to surmounting tension as former Governor of Jigawa State, Sule Lamido lambasts the National Leader of All Progressives Congress (APC), Bola Ahmad Tinubu, saying he has remained indifferent over… January 28, 2021 In "News" FORMER Deputy National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Chief Olabode George, yesterday, said those castigating former President Olusegun Obasanjo over insecurity in the country are blinded by the perks of positions they currently enjoy. May 24, 2019 In "News" By Azu Ishiekwene IF you were on a holiday to Nigeria from Mars last week, you would almost certainly cut short your stay to avoid what looked like a coming Armageddon. Rotimi Akeredolu, the governor of Ondo State, one of the six South-western states, had issued an ultimatum to herders, mostly… January 29, 2021 In "Converstion with Azu"