An early Monday morning fire incident has claimed the lives of three members of the same family in Rijiyar Zaki, Ungoggo local government area of Kano State. The fire incident which occurred around 3:18 am is said to have razed the ground floor building and leaving the persons (occupants) trapped indoor. The spokesperson of the Kano State fire services, Sa’idu Muhammad who confirmed the incident to Vanguard on Monday said it deployed it rescue team to the scene, quenched the fire and rescued the victims to the hospital. Muhammad further said upon arriving the hospital the victims were confirmed dead. According to him, “At about 3:18 am, we received a distress call through Malam Salisu Muhammad informing us of fire incident at Rijiyar Zaki (Rumfar Shehu) Ungoggo local government area of the state. “Upon receiving the call, we deployed our officers with appliances from Rijiyar Zaki fire division to the scene of the incident where we discovered it was a building of ground floor that was razed. “Our officers controlled and quenched the fire. The three victims trapped were rescued and taken to Murtala Muhammad Hospital for medical attention where they were confirmed dead. “The victims, Hauwa Musa, 25, Mubarak Musa, 13, and Salamatu Musa, 20 were members of the same family. “Investigation is ongoing to ascertain the cause of the incident. “Let me also use this opportunity to advise members of the general public to especially during this harmattan season handle fire with care to avoid inferno,” Muhammad however pleaded. Vanguard News Nigeria A teenage boy identified as Atiku Sani, 16 years old has drowned in a pond in Bachirawa, Ungoggo local government area of Kano State. July 8, 2020 In "Metro" By Bashir Bello - Kano Two persons, Bara'atu Yusif (30 years old) and Khadija Muhammad (8 years old) were, yesterday, rescued alive from a collapsed one storey building at Rimin Gata in Ungoggo local government area of Kano State. The duo reportedly sustained several degrees of injuries. The Public Relations… July 15, 2020 In "News" By Bashir Bello - Kano An early Wednesday morning ghastly motor accident has claimed lives of not fewer than five passengers in Rimin Gata in Ungoggo Local Government area of Kano State. It was gathered that the accident occurred between a Tipper Farkas with registration number QF 435NSH and a… May 27, 2020 In "News"