United States President Donald Trump on Thursday morning committed to an “orderly transition” of power on January 20. Trump made the promise in a statement after Congress certified Joe Biden and Kamala Harris as the country’s next president and vice-president. “Even though I totally disagree with the outcome of the election, and the facts bear me out, nevertheless there will be an orderly transition on Jan. 20. “I have always said we would continue our fight to ensure that only legal votes were counted. “While this represents the end of the greatest first term in presidential history, it’s only the beginning of our fight to Make America Great Again!” he said. The statement was released through his spokesperson’s Twitter account after the company blocked the president from using his own account. Reports have it that Facebook also suspended Trump’s account after using it to rally his supporters who invaded the Capitol Hill on Wednesday. Meanwhile, Congress approved the electoral votes after both chambers rejected objections by some Republican lawmakers to the votes in Pennsylvania and Arizona. Debates of the objections to Arizona had barely started on Wednesday when Trump supporters stormed the building and disrupted the proceedings. The session resumed and continued through the night after normalcy returned. Vanguard News Nigeria Even though I totally disagree with the outcome of the election, and the facts bear me out, nevertheless there will be an orderly transition on January 20th," Trump said in a statement minutes after the US Congress formally certified Biden's victory. Outgoing US President Donald Trump on Thursday offered the… January 7, 2021 In "Foreign" Top Republicans and Democrats pushed back hard Thursday against President Donald Trump's suggestion he might not accept defeat in the November election, warning him the United States was not "North Korea." A day after the US leader refused to clearly guarantee a peaceful transfer of power, Republican Senate Speaker Mitch… September 24, 2020 In "Foreign" The United States joint congress has officially declared Joe Biden as President of the United States of America. This brings to a close a long, troubled and, at times violent road from the Tuesday, November 3, 2020 presidential election to the January 20, 2021 swearing-in date of Donald Trump’s successor. January 7, 2021 In "News"