Amid the crisis generated by the quit notice given to herders in Ogun and Oyo states,  a former All Progressives Congress, APC,  presidential aspirant,  Adamu Garba, has said that it is wrong for cows to be roaming about in Nigeria in 21 century. He also said there is no land in Nigeria that does not belong to either the federal,  state or local governments,  saying land can only be used upon agreement with the owner. He called on government to quickly speak on land ownership in the country with a view to resolving certain misconceptions about land ownership. Adamu,  who said these in a post on his Facebook page,  blamed those he called city Fukani for not making a case for ranching to be used for grazing by herders. His words:”I’m a Fulani man, but I can tell you that it doesn’t make sense for cows to be roaming the streets in 2021. Cows should be ranched on a land acquired or rented by the ranchers. “By law, land can only be used through rent or purchase. “Government should step forward and clear this out. “I believe, to reconcile the raging herders crisis is to open proper communication where each knows the laws of the land. “All lands in Nigeria, including forests belongs to some entity, FG, SGs, LGs, Company’s or individuals. “Thus no land can be used without proper authorization. “The problem of the Fulani herders is a betrayal from the city Fulanis, who decided, after moving to cities, acquiring wealth & power, but forget to carry the village brothers along, leaving them in a desperate situation. “The rich Fulanis must come together & get ranching lands. “Land issue is as old as humanity, no any state power can give land to anyone where the land is been identified with owners for generations, without purchasing or renting. “The rich Fulani’s must come together & assist our fellow brothers to get reaching land or forest for grazing. “Else, this will be a breeding ground for a circlical conflicts, a very ripe situation for civil war. This must be avoided at all cost. ” Vanguard News Nigeria The agenda had an accompanying ideology whose object, as articulated by the Sardauna, is to maintain Northern Nigeria as a theocracy ruled by a Moslem claiming to be divinely directed January 28, 2018 In "News" Paramount Ruler and King of Iwo land, Osun state, Nigeria, HIM Oba AbdulRasheed Adewale Akanbi has tackled the Federal government of Nigeria saying that field grazing and cattle roaming is barbaric and should be abolished at once as it does conform to modernization and 21st century development of any country. January 27, 2018 In "News" The Federal Government’s plan to establish cattle colonies as a way of checking the incessant herdsmen/farmers clashes has continued to attract reactions and vast interest since it was announced by the Minister of Agriculture, Chief Audu Ogbeh, three weeks ago. January 27, 2018 In "Viewpoint"