Intels Nigeria Ltd., an oil and gas logistics company, on Monday said it had severed ties with former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, who was one of its major shareholders. The company said it severed ties with Abubakar and his family after the former Vice President sold off his shares and exited the company last year. Intels spokesman, Tommaso Ruffinoni, said in a statement that Abubakar, through his trust named Guernsey Trust International, sold shares of Orlean-Invest Group, Intels parent company, between December 2018 and January 2019, for a sum of approximately 60 million dollars. “In the period between April and May 2020, Abubakar converted his remaining shares into a convertible bond that he subsequently monetised up to a residual sum of approximately 29 million dollars. “When he requested to cash in the above-mentioned sum, our Group contested to Abubakar a debt, towards our Group, of 24.1million dollars. “Without having received any answer regarding the matter, on Nov. 30, 2020, Abubakar was informed about the set-off of such sum while we made available the remaining sum of 5.4 million dollars. “With the completion of the above-mentioned transactions, the era of Abubakar family’s involvement with the Group Orlean-Intels is over,” he said. He noted that on Dec. 1, 2020, the Group terminated also its working relationship with Abubakar’s sons, Mr Adamu Atiku Abubakar and Mr Aminu Atiku Abubakar. “Since that date our Group does not have any contacts, neither direct nor indirect, with members of Abubakar’s family,” Ruffinoni said. [NAN] Vanguard News Nigeria By Dirisu Yakubu - Abuja Former Vice President and co-founder of Integrated Logistics Services Nigeria Limited, Intels, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, has given reasons for selling off his shares holding in the company. In a short statement signed by Paul Ibe, media adviser to the former Vice President, Atiku blamed the… January 4, 2021 In "News" Spokesman of President Muhammadu Buhari Campaign Organisation, Festus Keyamo, said last night that if the system were to be working before President Buhari took over in 2015, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, the PDP presidential candidate, would be in jail by now instead of contesting the presidency. December 27, 2018 In "News" LAST week Kadaria Ahmed, host of “The candidates” interviewed PDP Presidential and Vice-Presidential candidates, Atiku Abubakar and Peter Obi with interesting results. Atiku said corruption is “the use of your privileged position to enrich yourself, your relatives or friends”. Interestingly, during a business summit in Lagos recently, he said, on… February 6, 2019 In "News"