Dr Haroun Hamzat, half brother to the Lagos State Deputy Governor, Dr Kadri Obafemi Hamzat, is dead. The cause of death was yet to be ascertained at press time. His death was announced on Tuesday, 5 January, 2021 by the Lagos State chapter of the Nigerian Medical Association, NMA. According to the statement, the young medical doctor who worked in one of the public health centres in Orile Agege Local Council Development Area, LCDA, was aged 37. Further investigation from Orile Agege LCDA revealed that the young doctor may have died from complications arising from Covid-19 infection. “He was sick and later tested positive for Covid-19 and was rushed to the Infectious Disease Hospital in Yaba where he later died,” one of the health workers in a Public Health Centre, PHC in Orile Agege LCDA confirmed in confidence. Another said, “he was such a promising young man, very jovial and generous. We will miss him”. However, at press time, the report could not be confirmed from the deputy governor. An aide of the deputy governor when contacted and speaking under anonymity, said, “Family yet to speak, but i am yet to confirm the report.” Below is the press statement from the Lagos State chapter of the NMA: “It’s a dark moment in the Nigerian Medical Association, Lagos State, as we announce with deep regret the death of our very young colleague, Dr Haroun Hamzat. Its “sunset at dawn” as he was just 37 years old. “He worked as a medical officer at one of the PHCs under Orile Agege LCDA until his demise. “We commiserate with his immediate family, friends, associates, colleagues and staff of Lagos State PHC Board and indeed the medical fraternity of Lagos State. We pray against such premature deaths in our fold. “May the Almighty God grant his family and all of us, the fortitude to bear this irreplaceable loss, Amen “Adieu our Hippocratic Brother, Dr Haroun Hamzat may your gentle soul rest in perfect peace.” “Signed: Nigerian Medical Association, Lagos State.” As Sanwo-Olu raises the alarm over frightening spike in infection cases Reiterates needs for caution, compliance to safety protocols Lagos deputy gov losses half brother By Olasunkanmi Akoni Following rising cases of COVID-19 and non adherence to safety protocols by residents, indications emerged on Wednesday of possible lockdown again in… January 6, 2021 In "Coronavirus Updates" RIPPLE effects of the indefinite strike called by Lagos doctors under the auspices of Medical Guild took its toll on healthcare institutions in the state, yesterday, as several cases of deaths were allegedly recorded following paralysis of medical and clinical services even as patronage from patients dipped significantly. April 26, 2012 In "News" LAGOS—The Nigerian Medical Association, NMA, and National Association of Resident Doctors, NARD, yesterday rejected plans by the Federal Government to invite Chinese doctors into the country, describing it as an embarrassment to their members and health workers in the country. April 6, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"