The Kebbi State Government says it has approved the release of N2.4 billion for various constituency projects in the 21 local government areas of the state. The state Commissioner for Water Resources and Rural Development, Alhaji Nura Kangiwa, said this while briefing newsmen in Birnin Kebbi on Friday. He said, “The projects are to be executed under various ministries, departments and agencies in fulfilment of the policy thrust of the incumbent administration in the provision of dividends of democracy to the people.” Kangiwa explained that Gov. Atiku Bagudu had mandated members of the State House of Assembly to identify important projects in their constituencies for submission to appropriate ministries for his approval. “As for the Ministry of Water Resources and Rural Development, we will execute projects worth N732. 6 million in the provision of water and electricity in the state. “Out of the amount for the ministry, new water projects and renovation of existing water facilities will consume N494.6 million, including procurement of new transformers, while rehabilitation of existing ones will attract N234 million,” he said. Kangiwa added that N4 million had been earmarked for the renovation of earth dams in the state. The commissioner called on the people of the state to work closely with their representatives at the state house of assembly in order to identify areas of priorities for the betterment of their communities. (NAN) Vanguard News Nigeria The glorious dawn is unarguably here with us in Kebbi State. It is interesting and worthy of note that His Excellency has, through dint of rare commitment and resolute, put an end to the hitherto fortuitous traces of infrastructural development and procured a normal occurrence for the state. October 14, 2018 In "Viewpoint" Governor of Kebbi state,  Alhaji Abubakar Bagudu, is targeting about 15,000 jobs from the activities of re-branded Argungu fishing and cultural festival slated to kick off next year. June 9, 2018 In "The Arts" Gov. Atiku Bagudu of Kebbi has called on the electorate not to sell their permanent voter cards (PVCs) to any politician. January 8, 2019 In "News"