IRKED by the daily onslaught by bandits on innocent citizens, President Muhammadu Buhari has ordered the National Security Adviser, NSA, Major General Babagana Monguno, retd, to rise up to the occasion and ensure that banditry activities are brought to an end. Already, the NSA has been directed to hold stakeholders meeting involving the relevant security agencies and ministries on the menace caused by illegal miners who are harvesting resources they have no legal rights to exploit. This was contained in a statement issued by the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Mallam Garba Shehu in Abuja yesterday. The statement read, “President Muhammadu Buhari has ordered for an immediate response to rising cases of bandit attacks on communities in Zamfara State. “In a directive to the National Security Adviser, Major-General Babagana Monguno (Rtd), the President ordered that there must be a clear pathway to ending the resurgent banditry that has continued to cost lives and the displacement of thousands of families from their towns and villages. “Recall that recently, the Speaker of the Zamfara State House of Assembly, Hon. Nasir Magarya, wrote a letter in which he appealed to President Buhari to intervene and stop the incessant killings by bandits in the State. “In this respect, a meeting is soon to take place that will deliberate on security and the issue of illegal mining which is fueling the crisis in Zamfara State. “In addition to NSA the convener, the meeting will be attended by Major-General Bashir Magashi (Rtd), Ogbeni Ra’uf Aregbesola and Architect Olamilekan Adegbite, Ministers of Defence, Interior, and Mines and Steel respectively. “Also to attend the meeting are the Directors-General of the Department of State Services, DSS, and the National Intelligence Agency, NIA. “Beyond the problems of bandits and cattle rustlers, the scale of lawlessness has been aggravated by illegal miners who are harvesting resources they have no legal rights to exploit. “Official statistics suggest that there are more than 20,000 such miners undermining this important part of the economy, operating in a manner that is extraordinarily harmful and destructive. The result is chaos. “This meeting is expected to address these and associated issues of corruption, government oversight and lawlessness.” Vanguard News Nigeria By Johnbosco Agbakwuru, Abuja   For the umpteenth time, President Muhammadu Buhari has expressed displeasure over the worsening security situation in the country and plans a complete re-engineering of the nation’s security architecture. This is as the NSA attributed the escalation of banditry, kidnapping and other criminal activities in the… August 4, 2020 In "News" President Muhammadu Buhari is currently in a closed door meeting with service chiefs. April 11, 2019 In "News" President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday rose from a meeting with security chiefs in the country, with a resolve to effect a complete re-engineering of the nation’s security architecture to tackle the high level of insecurity in Nigeria. August 5, 2020 In "News"