China has decided to sanction 28 persons who have seriously violated China’s sovereignty and who have been mainly responsible for a series of crazy US moves on China-related issues, a foreign ministry spokesperson announced on Thursday. They include Michael R. Pompeo, Peter K. Navarro, Robert C. O’Brien, David R. Stilwell, Matthew Pottinger, Alex M. Azar II, Keith J. Krach, and Kelly D. K. Craft of the Trump administration as well as John R. Bolton and Stephen K. Bannon. “These individuals and their immediate family members are prohibited from entering the mainland, Hong Kong and Macao of China. “They and companies and institutions associated with them are also restricted from doing business with China,” the spokesperson said. “Over the past few years, some anti-China politicians in the United States, out of their selfish political interests and prejudice and hatred against China and showing no regard for the interests of the Chinese and American people, have planned, promoted and executed the crazy moves which have gravely interfered in China’s internal affairs, undermined China’s interests, offended the Chinese people, and seriously disrupted China-U.S. relations,” “The Chinese government is firmly resolved to defend China’s national sovereignty, security and development interests,” said the spokesperson. [Xinhua] Vanguard News Nigeria. China has imposed sanctions on U.S. officials but without naming them or specifying the exact sanctions  as part of the two major powers’ dispute over Taiwan. “In response to the wrongdoing of the U.S. side China has decided to impose sanctions against U.S. officials who behave egregiously and bear major… January 18, 2021 In "News" United States (US) order to China to close its consulate in Houston was to protect US intellectual property and private information, the State Department said Wednesday. Spokeswoman Morgan Ortagus was elaborating on the incident that has strained already tense relations between the two world powers, as US Secretary of State… July 22, 2020 In "Foreign" A Chinese government spokesperson on Monday condemned the so-called U.S. sanctions imposed on officials of the central and Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (HKSAR) governments. The spokesperson said that it is time for U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo to end his sanction tricks. The spokesperson for the Hong Kong… January 18, 2021 In "News"