Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu has approved and directed that all public and private schools in the state to resume for second term 2020 /2021 academic session with effect from Monday 18th January, 2021. The Federal Government had earlier directed all schools to resume on January 18, 2021 after “due consultation” with stakeholders. The decision was reached after a meeting with stakeholders, including Governors, Commissioners of Education, Proprietors and heads of institutions, staff unions and students. Director General, Office of the Education Quality Assurance, OEQA, of the state Ministry of Education, Mrs Abiola Seriki-Ayeni, in a statement on Friday, said Commissioner for Education, Mrs Folasade Adefisayo, therefore, urged all school managers to enforce strict compliance with all subsisting protocols to curb the spread of COVID-19 in the state. The statement read in part: “I want to convey the approval of Mr Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu that all public and private schools in Lagos State can still resume for 2nd Term 2020 /2021 academic session with effect from Monday 18th January, 2021. In view of this, Commissioner for Education, Mrs Folasade Adefisayo wishes to enjoin all school managers to enforce strict compliance with all subsisting protocols to curb the spread of COVID-19 in the state. I wish you all happy resumption and please stay safe.” Instructively, the stakeholders’ meeting however, insisted on the compulsory wearing of facemasks by all students, teachers and workers in all schools. Other measures arrived at during the meeting included compulsory temperature checks and hand washing facilities at strategic locations in all schools, ensuring constant supply of water and sanitizers and enforcement of maintenance of social distancing and suspension of large gatherings such as assembly and visiting days. The meeting called for avoidance of overcrowding, including limitations in class sizes and hostel occupancy; availability of functional health clinics with facilities for isolation and transportation of suspected cases to medical facilities; adherence to all other non-pharmaceutical protocols, restrictions and containment measures as may be prescribed/ approved by the Presidential Task Force, PTF from time to time. “These measures which are to ensure safe reopening of schools for academic activities will be subject to constant review as we urge teachers, school administrators and other stakeholders to ensure strict compliance,” FG stated. Vanguard News Nigeria Lagos State Government announced in Ikeja on Monday that all schools, including daycare centres, pre-nursery and nursery schools, are free to reopen from Oct. 19. Schools in the state were closed at the height of the Covid-19 pandemic in March, but staggered resumption began with final classes in secondary schools… October 13, 2020 In "News" By Olasunkanmi Akoni Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has approved the resumption of all remaining classes in public and private schools in the state, beginning from next Monday. The Commissioner for Education, Mrs. Folasade Adefisayo, who announced the directive of the governor in a statement, yesterday, said, the physical resumption… October 13, 2020 In "News" The state's Commissioner for Education, Mrs. Folasade Adefisayo, in a statement, said all public and private schools below the tertiary level in Lagos should be reopened on the date, advising the authorities to comply with Covid-19 protocols. January 4, 2021 In "Education"