Afenifere chieftain, Adebanjo, said the 1999 constitution was fraudulent and did not articulate the collective will of the people, having been imposed on the nation by the military.
.
Adebanjo noted that the country must return to the 1960 Independence Constitution when the regions had autonomy. He said, “My view is that 1960 and 1963 constitutions gave us more freedom and autonomy which we are all agitating for. “Why we are emphasizing restructuring now? Because the 1999 constitution is fraudulent. It does not represent the choice of the people. “Interestingly, when we talk of restructuring, some of our friends from the North will say ‘they want yo break the country’. But, anyone opposed to true federalism which is restructuring is the one who wants to break the country. “The question of insecurity the country is facing now is because the governors do not have control over the security agencies in their states. That is what we need to address now. “Where should the presidency go in 2023? That is not the question now. The key question is to first keep the country together. Then, let us make the question of presidency constitutional not gentleman’s agreement. “Anybody talking about the election without changing this constitution does not love this country. It is the 1999 constitution that has made Northern Nigerians believe, if they don’t support anybody, he or she cannot be president. “All the agitation about Biafran separation is because they (Igbos) feel excluded under the constitution. I only hope the progressive elements in the North will persuade President Buhari to restructure the country now before everything burns to blazes. “The Constitution, we have now is a fraudulent constitution. It is not our constitution. Most importantly, it has failed, and everybody testified to this fact. It is simply not working. “To save us from this situation, we must impress upon President Buhari to change the constitution to one that everybody agrees to.” Vanguard News Nigeria By Dapo Akinrefon   CHIEF Ayo Adebanjo is a staunch Awosit and a chieftain of the pan-Yoruba socio-political organization, Afenifere. In this interview, Adebanjo takes a swipe at the Northern governors over their call for social media censorship and the north’s refusal to support restructuring.   What is your take on… November 7, 2020 In "News" By Nwafor Sunday Afenifere chieftain and elder Statesman, Chief Ayodele Adebanjo, Thursday asked Nigerian leaders to change the constitution, noting that the constitution is the problem of the country that needs to be changed before any election. Adebanjo said this at a conference organised by Igbo think-tank, Nzuko Ummuna, in… January 14, 2021 In "News" Former Legal Adviser to the late Head of State, General Sani Abacha, Prof Auwal Yadudu,  has told the President-General of Ohaneze Ndigbo, Chief John Nwodo and Afenifere leader,  Pa Ayo Adebanjo,  to stop beating around the bush on restructuring, and follow the existing legal order in the 1999 Constitution. June 1, 2020 In "News"