US President-elect Joe Biden attended a mass at St Matthew’s Cathedral in Washington, DC on Wednesday morning, accompanied by Democratic and Republican leaders of Congress in a symbol of unity ahead of his inauguration. The future 46th President of the United States was accompanied by his wife Jill Biden, Democratic House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, as well as Republican Senate leader Mitch McConnell and House leader Kevin McCarthy. Violinist Patricia Treacy, soprano Renée Fleming and the St. Augustine Gospel Choir were to perform during the mass. Biden, 78, will be sworn in shortly before noon (1700 GMT) outside the Capitol, which was targeted in a deadly assault by pro-Trump protesters exactly two weeks ago. The attack led to the historic second impeachment of Donald Trump by the Democrat-controlled House of Representatives. He is the first president ever to have been impeached twice. His impeachment trial is now scheduled to take place in the Senate, but the date has not yet been set. McCarthy and McConnell, long loyal allies of the Republican billionaire, had harsh words for him after the Capitol attack. McCarthy said Trump “bears responsibility” for inciting the riot and should have immediately denounced the crowd when he saw what was happening — but added that he thought impeachment was a “mistake,” and voted against it. McConnell, in a resounding break with Trump, did not rule out finding the president guilty at the Senate trial. “The mob was fed lies,” the senator from Kentucky said in a speech on the Senate floor Tuesday. “They were provoked by the president and other powerful people. “And they tried to use fear and violence to stop” the certification by Congress of Democrat Joe Biden’s November 3 election victory, McConnell said. Vanguard News Nigeria Thirty-four years after first seeking the job, Joe Biden will be sworn in as the 46th US president Wednesday, drawing a curtain on the most tumultuous administration of modern times and charting a new course to tackle Covid-19 and unite a splintered nation. Outgoing President Donald Trump entered the White… January 20, 2021 In "Foreign" The US House of Representatives impeached President Donald Trump on Wednesday for a second time -- just days before he is scheduled to leave office -- raising questions about what happens next. The House voted 232-197 to impeach the president, with 10 members of Trump's Republican Party joining 222 Democrats.… January 14, 2021 In "Foreign" US President-elect, Joe Biden, unveiled plans Thursday for fighting Covid and injecting $1.9 trillion into a battered US economy, but already his ambitious first 100 days agenda is overshadowed by the looming Senate trial of his soon-to-be predecessor Donald Trump. Biden promised "a new chapter" for the nation on the… January 15, 2021 In "Foreign"