The Senior Staff Association of Nigeria Polytechnics, SSANIP, has embarked on a 14-day warning strike starting from Jan. 4 to press home their demands. The directive to embark on the strike is contained in a release signed by the Acting National Secretary of the association, Comrade Emmanuel Enyiegor on Monday in Calabar. The reason for the strike according to the association was occasioned by the constant neglect of the demands of the association by federal and state governments, inspite of several efforts made. “This is to bring to the attention of all the members that the General Executive Council had on Dec. 17 2020, approved the commencement of 14-day warning strike with effect from Jan. 4. “Members are by this notice directed to refrain from going to office from Monday Jan. 4, 2021. “We demand the immediate re-evaluation and implementation of NEEDS assessment report and release of funds for the Polytechnic sector without further delay. “We demand the complete payment of salaries and arrears of minimum wage for staff in the Polytechnic sector starting from the period of implementation in April 2019. “We demand for the release of scheme of service for Polytechnics immediately. This has been put on hold by the National Board for Technical Education for three years without any concrete explanation,” the release stated. The Association however, expressed displeasure with the state governments of Benue, Cross River, Abia, Ondo, Ogun, Osun and Kano for their refusal to nonpayment of correct outstanding salaries to staff of the Polytechnics and Colleges of Health. “The union decries the nonchalant attitude of the Integrated Personal Payroll Information System to issues of SSANIP as regards salaries of members. “We demand the constitution of Governing Councils in all federal and state Polytechnics,” the release stated. Vanguard News Nigeria By Ike Uchechukwu - Calabar The Senior Staff Association of Nigeria Polytechnics, SSANIP, has embarked on a 14-day warning strike starting from Jan. 4 to press home their demands. The directives to embark on the strike is contained in a release signed by the Acting National Secretary of the association,… January 4, 2021 In "Education" WORKERS of Delta State Polytechnics and Colleges of Education, yesterday made good their threat to begin an definite industrial action to force government to adopt and implement the Consolidated Tertiary Educational Institutions Salary Structure, CONTEDISS. June 24, 2010 In "News" Members of the Senior Staff Association of Nigeria Polytechnics (SSANIP) have vowed to continue with their indefinite nationwide industrial action which enters the nineth day today until their major demand of immediate implementation of the staff Consolidated Tertiary Institutions Salary Structure (CONTISS) 15 is granted by the Federal Government. July 16, 2009 In "Education"