A prisoner, who escaped from the White House prison in Benin, Edo State capital, during the #EndSARS crisis, has been arrested in Ogun State. The suspect, Obehi Ogbeh, was arrested Wednesday, around Angulis, Agabado area of the state. Hoodlums attacked the White House prison along Sapele Road, Benin City, and also destroyed the High Court 4 beside it. Some of them were injured during crossfire with the armed squad of prison officials. Explaining how the escaped Edo prisoner was arrested, Ogun State Police Public Relations Officer, Abimbola Oyeyemi, said: “He was arrested following information received by policemen at Agbado divisional headquarters that a middle-aged man was seen around Angulis area of Agbado and that his look and conduct were suspicious. “Upon the information, the DPO Agbado division, Kehinde Kuranga, detailed his detectives to the area where the man was apprehended. “He was properly interrogated and confessed to the detectives that he was an inmate of White House prison in Edo State. “He said he was set free by hoodlums who attacked the prison yard during the #Endsars protest. He further confessed that he relocated to Agbado to avoid being re-arrested. “Meanwhile, the Commissioner of Police, CP Edward Ajogun, has directed that the suspect be transferred to the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department, SCIID, for further profiling.” Vanguard News Nigeria •Run away convicted criminals on the prowl •As police abandon patrols of highway By Ozioruva Aliu THE effects of EndSARS protest that went violent and resulted in two jail breaks in Edo state have continued to reverberate in several parts of the state as the residents are now gripped with… October 31, 2020 In "News" …One of them, a Condemned Prisoner snatched a vehicle 30 minutes after, sold it in Kaduna & snatched another car in Kaduna. The Police at Force headquarters on Monday paraded 34 suspected criminals including five escapee prisoners who escaped from the Oko Correctional Center in Benin when hoodlums hiding under… November 30, 2020 In "News" The Edo State Governor, Mr Godwin Obaseki, has issued ultimatum to fleeing inmates from the Medium Security Correctional Centres (MSCC) on Sapele Road and at Oko, Airport Road, to return to the prisons before Friday, October 23rd, 2020. Obaseki gave the ultimatum while inspecting the Correctional facilities on Sapele Road… October 21, 2020 In "SARS Update"