Barely one hour the congress certified Joe Biden’s electoral victory, former vice president Atiku Abubakar, has joined a former Aviation Minister, Chief Femi Fani-Kayode, in asking Nigerians to emulate United State democratic principles, noting that ‘strong institutions and not strong personalities are the bulwark of a rich democratic culture’. Recall that Biden defeated President Donald Trump in the November 3 presidential election. Trump had alleged that Biden won through electoral malpractice and fraud. He had listed a good number of states he assumed the fraud took place and had gone to the country’s Supreme court. His struggle to convince the world that he defeated Biden in the election has been put to rest as Congress Thursday certified Biden’s victory. Reacting to this, Atiku said: “Democracy, as it is often said, is a process. With the culmination of the process certifying the electoral vote of Joe Biden as the next President of the United States, it is clear that strong institutions are vital to the sustainability of democracy. “This is a lesson to be learnt: that strong institutions and not strong personalities are the bulwark of a rich democratic culture.” Democracy, as it is often said, is a process. With the culmination of the process certifying the electoral vote of Joe… Posted by Atiku Abubakar on Thursday, January 7, 2021  Vanguard News Nigeria President-elect Joe Biden's victory in Arizona was finalized Monday, further cementing his win even as Donald Trump continues to make claims of vote fraud. "This election was conducted with transparency, accuracy and fairness in accordance with Arizona's laws and elections procedures, despite numerous unfounded claims to the contrary," Arizona secretary… December 1, 2020 In "Foreign" The U.S. state of Georgia has confirmed President-elect Joe Biden’s victory in the Nov. 3 election after a painstaking hand recount of its five million presidential ballots. Georgia’s Secretary of State, Brad Raffensperger, who announced the final results in a statement on Thursday evening, said the audit did not change… November 20, 2020 In "News" The United States joint congress has officially declared Joe Biden as President of the United States of America. This brings to a close a long, troubled and, at times violent road from the Tuesday, November 3, 2020 presidential election to the January 20, 2021 swearing-in date of Donald Trump’s successor. January 7, 2021 In "News"