FOLLOWING the latest Boko Haram invasion into Geidam town on Wednesday, the Yobe State Governor, Mai Mala Buni, has directed the State Emergency Management Agency, SEMA, to provide emergency support and take stock of destructions with a view to rendering humanitarian support and assistance to victims. A statement by Mamman Mohammed, Director General of Press and Media Affairs to the governor, yesterday, said: “Following the unfortunate attack by insurgents in Geidam town, Governor Mai Mala Buni has directed the State Emergency Management Agency, SEMA, to provide emergency support and take stock of destructions with a view to render humanitarian support and assistance to victims. “Buni commiserated with the people of Geidam, and described the attack as most unfortunate. The attack came at a time when there is general improvement in peace and security across the state. The general improvement in security and support provided by government has given our people the opportunity to gradually resettle and reclaim their means of livelihood.” According to the governor, the attack would not deter government in its efforts to rebuild, reconstruct and rehabilitate communities initually destroyed by insurgency. Buni commended the people of the state for their resilience and determination to rebuild their lives and move forward, adding: “The government and people of Yobe would continue to partner with the security agencies for the full return of peace and security across the state.”
Meanwhile, SEMA officials have since arrived Geidam and taking stock of the destructions on private and public properties. SEMA Executive Secretary, Dr. Mohammed Goje, said the agency had commenced stock taking of the damages caused by the attack. “In line with the directives of Governor Mai Mala Buni, l am leading the team to Geidam to assess the situation and see areas in need of immediate intervention to provide succour to the people” Goje said. Vanguard News Nigeria The Deputy Governor of Yobe, Alhaji Abubakar Ali, on Sunday described as ''callous and unfortunate'' the violent attack on the people of Buni Gari in the state by unknown gunmen. April 6, 2014 In "News" Reliable Sources including security forces who were not authotized to talk to the press, Sunday morning confirmed the deadly attack and invasion of Military Base by fully armed members of Boko Haram sect on Saturday evening at Buni Gari town of Gujba Local Government area of Yobe state. December 2, 2018 In "News" The death toll from a school massacre in Yobe by suspected Boko Haram Islamists on Tuesday has risen to 43, a hospital source in the troubled northeastern Yobe state said. February 25, 2014 In "News"