Men of the Lagos State Emergency Management Authority, LASEMA, and another rescue team, on Tuesday, averted what could have resulted into fire disaster when a tanker with registration number LSD 155XT, loaded with 50,000 litres of Premium Motor Spirit, PMS, overturned, spilling its content in the process at Ogudu, under bridge inward Alapere area of Lagos State. The incident with no casualty happened at about 1.30 pm was immediately put under control by emergency responders even as miscreants and residents stormed the scene to scoop the split fuel. The incident resulted in terrible gridlock as the entire area was cordoned off to traffic. Motorists were diverted to alternative routes to access their destination. According to Oke-Osanyintolu, “On arrival at the above scene, it was observed that an Iveco truck loaded with 50,000 litres of PMS had a leakage in one of its compartment leading to spillage on the road. “However, with the quick intervention of the agency’s Tiger unit and Lagos Fire Service on the ground to prevent any form of ignition as a result of the spillage. “The compartment of the truck was later repaired and the situation contained. The truck has been driven to a layby.” Vanguard News Nigeria Fallen fuel tanker spilling content on the road along Alapere Ogudu area of the state. Standstill traffic situation presently. January 19, 2021 In "News" What could have been a major tragedy was on Saturday averted by the combined efforts of the Lagos State Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA) and the Lagos State Fire Service when a tanker fully loaded with 33,000 litres of PMS fell on the Anthony Bridge Inward Gbagada. December 24, 2016 In "News" By Bose Adelaja What would have resulted in another major fire outbreak was averted on the Lagos/Ibadan Expressway, Tuesday, when two petroleum tankers collided and fell on their sides thereby discharging their contents. The incident occurred on Otedola Bridge inward Berger, at about 7am as both tankers were reportedly on… May 5, 2020 In "Metro"