Gunmen shot dead two Afghan women judges working for the Supreme Court during an early morning ambush in the country’s capital Sunday, officials said, as a wave of assassinations continues to rattle the nation. The attack on the judges happened as they were travelling to their office in a court vehicle, Ahmad Fahim Qaweem, a spokesman for the court told AFP. “Unfortunately, we have lost two women judges in today’s attack. Their driver is wounded,” Qaweem said. “The vehicle was transporting the women judges to their office.” There are more than 200 female judges working for the country’s top court, the spokesman added. Kabul police confirmed the attack. “They were judges working for the Supreme Court,” said Jamshid Rasuli, spokesman for the attorney general’s office. Violence has surged across Afghanistan in recent months, especially in Kabul where a new trend of targeted killings of high-profile figures have sown fear and chaos in the restive city. The latest attack comes just two days after the Pentagon announced it had cut troop levels in Afghanistan to 2,500, their lowest numbers during the nearly two decades of war. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria An Afghan radio journalist was shot dead Friday in a car ambush in the central province of Ghor, officials said, the fifth media worker to be killed in two months. Besmullah Adel Aimaq, editor-in-chief of Voice of Ghor radio, was killed en route to Firoz Koh city, the capital of… January 2, 2021 In "Foreign" Taliban militants on Friday attacked a Kabul guesthouse used by a US anti-landmine charity, killing two people including one girl as gunfire and explosions rocked the Afghan capital one week before the presidential election. March 28, 2014 In "News" A prominent women's rights campaigner and member of the Afghan negotiating team that will hold talks with the Taliban, Fawzia Koofi, has been wounded in a gun attack near Kabul, officials said Saturday. Gunmen opened fire on Koofi and her sister on Friday when they were returning from a meeting… August 15, 2020 In "Foreign"