NO fewer than three police officers were, weekend shot dead while two others sustained bullet wounds at Onueke Police Station in Ezza South Local Government Area of Ebonyi State. Vanguard gathered that the policemen were attacked by suspected hoodlums who stormed the police station in the night. Investigations revealed that the slain officers were two inspectors and one female who was relaxing in her room when the hoodlums struck. It was also gathered that the attackers stole two AK 47 rifles from the affected police station. In recent times, there had been reported cases of cult clashes in Onueke, the location of the incident. Contacted, the Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Mrs Loveth Oda, who confirmed the incident explained that corpses of the slain officers had been deposited in a mortuary while the two who sustained bullet wounds were receiving treatment. However, the Commissioner for Internal Security in the State, Mr Stanley Okoroemegha, said the government was saddened by the incident. Okoroemegha gave security agencies forty-eight hours to brief the government on how such a breach could have occurred without any intelligence to forestall it. Ends Vanguard News Nigeria …One killed, 2 abducted as pirates strike in Rivers …Gunmen kill 4 in Taraba Twelve persons were reportedly killed, two abducted, many injured and four buildings razed in Delta, Ebonyi, Rivers and Taraba states in cult-related clashes, pirates and gunmen attacks Sunday night and yesterday. It was gathered that one… December 1, 2020 In "News" …Tension, bonfires, attempted arson rock Abakaliki, as Umahi declares curfew in Ebonyi …Security operatives gun down three persons in Rivers …Police stations burnt in Imo l2 feared dead, as protest turns violent in Enugu …Policeman killed, another injured in Lagos Police stations’ attacks …Three banks, council set ablaze …Protesters raze… October 22, 2020 In "SARS Update" LAGOS—Three persons were shot dead yesterday, during a shootout between hoodlums and some officers attached to the Federal Operations Zone A, Ikeja, of the Nigerian Customs Service, NCS, at White Sand community in Ijora Badia area of Lagos State. July 27, 2016 In "News"