Ex model, video vixen and beauty entrepreneur, Adeola Adeyemi Chizoba popularly known as Diiadem has been unveiled by Hush’D Makeover as their brand ambassador. The unveiling took place in Lagos at the company’s office on Tuesday, January 5, 2021. Speaking at the unveiling event, the Chief Executive Officer of Hush’D Makeover, Abiola Omotunde Ahmed reveals why they are signing the beautiful ex model and video vixen who is also the Chief Executive Officer of Beauty By AD to lead the charge in their brand promotion and visibility. According to her, “She is an ambitious woman who is passionate about beauty and skincare. She understands the importance of looking after your skin despite a hectic schedule which makes her happy to work with us. We love her fresh sense of style, upbeat spirit and like us, recognizes the importance of self-care. Welcome on board Diiadem! We look forward to doing great things with you as our ambassador,” said Abiola Omotunde Ahmed, the Chief Executive Officer of Hush’D Makeover. “Her keen interest in her skin care routine; her means of communication with the public; her poise and brand identity; and lastly her complexion sealed the deal for us,” she added. Hush’D Makeover Limited, established in 2015 is a made-in-Nigeria organic skincare brand. Vanguard News Nigeria One of Nigeria's leading names in the beauty industry, Hush'D Makeover founded by Ahmed Omotunde Abiola has unveiled drop dead gorgeous beauty and brand influencer, Adeola Adeyemi Chizoba popularly known as Diiadem as brand ambassador. The company's management made the announcement public with the signing of the contract yesterday. At… January 6, 2021 In "News" Ahmed Omotunde Abiola is a name that not only resonates with pomp and pride in the beauty industry in Nigeria, her company, Hush'D Makeover is one of the shining lights of the industry. In two years of their operation, they have defined the landscape with their unique products and services… July 19, 2017 In "News" By Ayo Onikoyi, “Beauty is about style. It knows no gender.” This was a statement credited to top fashion brand Chanel to announce their first line of makeup for men in September of 2019 in the United States. Makeup and skincare for men are now not just accepted but seen… August 30, 2020 In "Entertainment"