A 55-year-old man Ishau Falana has been arrested by the Ogun state command of Nigerian police for allegedly killing his relative, one Badmus Rafiu. A release signed by the command spokesman, Abimbola Oyeyemi, said “the suspect was arrested following a complaint lodged at Ayetoro divisional headquarters by a younger brother to the deceased who reported that the deceased went to their farm at Oluwasogo area of Ijaka Isale only to be accosted by the suspect who challenged him for burning bush very close to his farm. “He stated further that fight ensued between them, as a result of the argument, consequent upon which the suspect overpowered the deceased, tied his hands and legs with rope and used a stick to beat him to a state of coma before leaving him there and coming back to the town. “The following day when the deceased mother got to the farm, she met him already dead. Oyeyemi said “upon the report, the DPO Ayetoro division Csp Bolaji Jimoh detailed his detectives to the scene from where the corpse was recovered to the general hospital mortuary for post mortem examination. “The suspect was there and then traced and apprehended. “On interrogation, he confessed to tying the deceased’s legs and hands before beating him to coma but claimed that he never knew that it would lead to his death. The police PPRO added that the Commissioner of Police, CP Edward A. Ajogun has ordered the transfer of the suspect to the homicide section of the state criminal investigation and intelligence department for further investigation and diligent prosecution. Vanguard News Nigeria Some residents of Omuo Ekiti, headquarters of Ekiti East Local Government area of Ekiti State, have allegedly beaten to death, a middle-aged man accused of attempting to kidnap a boy in the area. The police command in the state has since confirmed the incident, warning residents of the state against… November 29, 2020 In "News" Operatives of Enugu State Police Command have arrested one Sampson Nwaobasi, an Enugu-based farmer, for allegedly killing his business partner, Friday Ani, over proceeds from farming business. August 13, 2019 In "News" Operatives of Enugu State Police Command have arrested one Sampson Nwaobasi, an Enugu-based farmer, for allegedly killing his business partner, Friday Ani, over proceeds from farming business. August 13, 2019 In "Crime Alert"