A professor of Fish Nutrition at the Department of Marine Sciences, University of Lagos, Prof. Adewolu Morenike has advised Nigerians to regularly consume soybeans and fish to improve their diet, lower the risk of non-communicable diseases, as well as help to maintain the body’s defence against infections. Available studies have shown that Soybeans and fish are known sources of protein. Adewolu said the benefits of the combination of soybeans and fish were often understated whereas they contain numerous vitamins and minerals which are of benefits to the human body and mind. She described the combination of soybeans with fish as a superfood that can lower the risk of diabetes, heart diseases, stroke, and obesity. According to her, regular consumption of fish (whether oily, shellfish or lean fish) will lower the risk of heart attacks and strokes because of the presence of Omega-3 fatty acids. She said: “Soybean is an excellent source of protein, and it contains fundamental nutrients needed by the human body to function optimally. “Soybeans are low in carbohydrates and have a very low glycemic index (GI), which is a measure of how foods affect the rise in blood sugar after a meal. Soybeans are good sources of several vitamins and minerals, including vitamin K1, vitamins B1-B6, folates, copper, manganese, potassium, phosphorus, and thiamine. They are a rich source of various bioactive plant compounds, including isoflavones, saponins, and lunasin.” Adewale stated that soybeans have high levels of isoflavones and antioxidants as well as immune-boosting properties. She added that the vitamins and minerals contained in soybeans and fish help to maintain the body’s defence against infections, thereby enhancing the human body’s immunologic system. According to her, the proteins and isoflavones in soy repair worn-out cells and tissues, and replace blood plasma, which is vital for immune resistance. Isoflavones may be protective against breast cancer later in life. The high levels of antioxidants in soybeans may prevent the onset of several cancer cells and remove free radicals from the body. Adewale also stated that fish, which contain Omega-3 fatty acids, would help in the breakdown of triglycerides and fatty acids in the liver, thereby lowering the risk of fatty liver disease. “This helps blood flow to the brain and improves its performance during mental tasks. Fish are rich in Vitamin A, which can fight free radicals and reduce oxidative stress. “As long as fishes are included in our diet, be it tilapia, codfish (panla), scumbia, crabs, crayfish, or any type of fish at all, our immune system will be immediately boosted because fishes contain vitamin B12 (cobalamin) and selenium, which are critical in the formation of macrophage cells, which patrol the bloodstreams for harmful bacteria.” She further explained that the immune system is spread throughout the body and it involves many types of cells, organs, proteins, and tissues, noting that, without an enhanced immune system, the body would be opened to attack from bacteria, viruses and parasites, hence, the need to increase the dietary intake of soy and fish. “In Nigeria, the average protein intake is low; it is estimated to be 45.4 grams per day. This is below the WHO’s recommendation of 70 grams per day. A combination of soybeans and fish will definitely meet the recommendation since these two foods are very good sources of dietary protein.” Vanguard News Nigeria By Gabriel Olawale Nutrition experts have called for the inclusion of soybean to wheat flour in the production of staples such as bread, pasta, and noodles to tackle malnutrition, noting that the intake of Soybean in Nigerian diets was inadequate. They also noted that Nigeria is the largest Soybean producing… December 15, 2020 In "Health" People age 65 and older who eat fish may live an average of two years longer than people who do not consume the omega-3 fatty acids found mainly in seafood, a US study suggested on Monday. April 1, 2013 In "Health" Personally, i do not like the taste of soybeans especially the milk, yet it comes in handy as a refreshing drink to some other people and very filling too, so the soymilk could be considered as a food on its own. August 17, 2011 In "Health"