The new Managing Director/CEO of Fidelity Bank Plc, Mrs. Nneka Onyeali-Ikpe, whose tenure formally commenced on January 1, 2021 has assumed office, becoming the 4th Chief Executive and first female to occupy the position since the inception of the bank in 1988. She succeeds the erstwhile MD/CEO, Mr. Nnamdi Okonkwo who retired on December 31, 2020, after completing his contract tenure in line with the bank’s governance policy. Fidelity Bank in an email at the weekend, assured customers that the bank “under her leadership will consolidate on the already laid foundation and track record of performance, to execute the next growth phase”. Mrs. Onyeali-Ikpe was formerly the Executive Director, Lagos and South West Directorate of the bank and has been an integral part of management in the last 6 years.  She joined the bank in 2015 and spearheaded the transformation of the Directorate, leading it to profitability and sustained its impressive year-on-year growth across key performance metrics, including contributing over 28% of the Bank’s profit  before tax (PBT), Deposits and Loans. She is vastly experienced and has spent over 30 years working across various banks including Standard Chartered Bank Plc, Zenith Bank Plc and Citizens International Bank/Enterprise Bank, where she held several management positions in Legal, Treasury, Investment Banking, Retail/Commercial Banking and Corporate Banking. As an Executive Director at legacy Enterprise Bank Plc, she received formal commendation from the Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON), as a member of the management team that successfully turned around Enterprise Bank Plc. She holds Bachelor of Laws (LLB) degree from the University of Nigeria, Nsukka; a Master of Laws (LLM) degree from Kings College, London; and has attended executive training programmes at notable global institutions including Harvard Business School; The Wharton School University of Pennsylvania; INSEAD School of Business; Chicago Booth School of Business; London Business School and IMD. By Haruna Danladi When news filtered out that for the first time in its history, the Board of Fidelity Bank Plc, a leading tier-2 commercial bank in Nigeria had appointed a female banker as its Managing Director Designate, the financial market received the news with so much excitement. This was… December 23, 2020 In "News" In compliance with its succession policy, the Board of Directors of Fidelity Bank Plc has approved the appointment of Mrs. Nneka Onyeali-Ikpe as the bank’s Managing Director/ Chief Executive Officer(MD/CEO) designate. This comes as the bank also announced the retirement of the current MD/CEO, Mr Nnamdi Okonkwo, upon completion of… July 21, 2020 In "News" THE Board of Directors of Fidelity Bank Plc has announced the appointment of Engr. Henry Ikem Obih as an Independent Non-Executive Director with effect from September 21, 2020 and Dr. Kenneth Onyewuchi Opara as an Executive Director. The appointments, according to the bank, have been approved by the Central Bank… October 5, 2020 In "Business"