Lifecard International Investment is one of the real estate companies in the country that believes in giving back to the society. No wonder the company is rapidly growing and competing favourably in the industry. Its operation is unique as it provides clients affordable property and access for development especially the Nigerian youths who are queen in owning of home in Lagos. As if that was not enough, recently it organised an award night to give back to the society. However, it was a great turn-out event as dignitaries from different part of the country graced the maiden edition of the Nigerian for Nigeria Initiative Awards (NNIA). The Convener of the Initiative, Mrs Grace Ofure Ibhakhomu in her opening speech said that the motive behind this award initiative is to inspire and reignite the spirit of patriotism among Nigerians. According to her, the new Nigeria we desire can only be achieved when we play our individual roles and synergize to foster a formidable alliance that will ultimately birth a new horizon. Ibhakhomu said that she believes a new Nigeria is possible if we can develop a mindset of giving back to Nigerian society and not to always receive, even she quotes the words of John F Kennedy; “Ask not what your country can do for you, ask what you can do for your country”. However, among the prominent dignitaries at the award was the brand Ambassador of Lifecard International Investment, Mr Joseph Yobo who also spoke on the true Nigerian spirit and what Lifecard International Investment is doing to better the lives of Nigerians in the real estate industry. The highpoint of the event was a presentation of a car to a star awardee, Mrs. Lade Owolabi who could not control her emotion and tears because she couldn’t believe it is real until she was handed the car key. According to Mrs. Lade Owolabi, this Christmas is special one for me. This car is going to change something in my life and family. Lifecard International Investment, I indeed appreciate the organisers of this award. I’m happy that investors are benefiting from the goodwill of the owners of the real estate company. Thank you once again. Continuing, the awardee said before her audience that some people mocked her for coming back to Nigeria. “Those are people that didn’t see what I saw, those are people that didn’t see the mandate I was running with”. Mrs. Lade’s story is one that depicts patriotism and the true Nigerian spirit after she left her comfort in the USA where she schooled and worked to come back to her Homeland to empower and bring smiles to the faces of her fellow Nigerians. Though it was the maiden edition, the turnout was overwhelming. The hall was filled to the brim with people who are passionate about Nigeria, people whose desire is for Nigeria to be great again. It’s great to know we still have a whole lot of people who will go to any length to bring about the positive change we desire in our Nation. “In all, we are grateful to God for the success of the event and we are looking forwards to the 2nd edition in 2021. The Convener, Mrs. Grace Ofure Ibhakhomu is the CEO of Lifecard Investment International Limited, who is a major player in the real estate sector in Nigeria. Her journey into real estate is an inspiring success story. Born April 28, 1978 in Edo state, Grace attended University Primary School, Ekpoma, University Secondary School, Ekpoma, Holy Trinity Grammer School, Sabogida – Ora and had her higher education study at Ambrose Ali University Ekpoma all in Edo state. She is an alumnus of the prestigious Lagos Business School, Owner’s Management Programme (OMP24) set and she is married to Pastor Christopher Onoye with amazing children. Vanguard News Nigeria With a mission to strengthen the Nigerian Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) community, a business mogul Engr. Felix Nnamdi Unachukwu is inspiring the young generation with his Non-governmental organization and coaching initiative which he tags Bizness Matters. According to Unachukwu, a serial entrepreneur with over 20 years’ experience, the… August 18, 2020 In "News" Renowned for his creativity and consistency in developing young minds in the business world and the real estate industry in particular, Stephen Akintayo, MD/CEO, Gtext Homes, was recently awarded a Doctor of Science, D.Sc (Honoris Causal) in Real Estate Development and Corporate Leadership by the European American University. Over the… October 25, 2020 In "News" Bridget Adeyemi, the co- Founder of wave-making real estate marketing company, Lekkiajahikoyi Property Investment Limited, has highlighted the importance of focus as a success factor in real estate business. "We do only real estate, that is our only focus as a business endeavour," she declared. "We give it our all… December 28, 2020 In "News"