An approved list of the posting of Senate confirmed new Nigerian Ambassadors by President Muhammadu Buhari indicates that Nigeria’s Envoy to Ireland, Mrs Uzoma Emenike will be the nation’s Ambassador to the United States being one of the total 11 current Ambassadors retained in the new posting. In all there are 52 non-career envoys posted out by the President and 43 career ambassadors based on the confirmed list from the Senate. A presidency source said the President has approved the posting and they have all been invited for an induction programme in Abuja for later in the month. A source from the Foreign Affairs Ministry says the full list of the posting would be released officially at the end of the induction programme in Abuja billed for later in the month. Below is the list of the retained Ambassadors drawn from the non-career Ambassadors followed by some of the other politically appointed envoys and then some of the career ambassadors posted to notable foreign missions of the Federal Government. According to the list which was cited by Majority Opinion last night, the 11 retained Ambassadors are Mohammed Dansata Rimi from Katsina UAE BABA, Ahmed Jidda Borno China Gani Modu Zanna Bura Yobe Lebanon Yusuf Tuggar Bauchi Berlin Baba Madugu Bern Switzerland Deborah S.Illiya Kaduna Congo Ms. Modupe Irele Lagos Hungary new posting from Paris Ms. Eniola Ajayi Ekiti The Hague Netherlands new posting-from Hungary Tijani Muhammmad-Bande Kebbi Ambassador and Permanent Representative to the UN in NY Adeyinka O Asekun Canada Ogun Mrs. Uzoma E. Emenike Abia D.C new post from Ireland *Other key postings from the non career list include the following London, UK Sarafa Tunji Ishola OGUN Dublin, Ireland Ms. Ijeoma Obieze Chineyerem IMO *Delta Oma Djebah Bangkok Thailand *Julius Adebowale Adesina Lomé from Oyo Moscow Abdulahi Y. Shehu from Plateau Ademola Seriki Madrid, Spain from Lagos Haruna Manta, Pretoria, South Africa from Niger Kayode I. Laro-Paris, France from Kwara Paul Adikwu The Vatican, Italy from Benue Abubakar Moriki Tokyo, Japan from Zamfara Mrs. Opunimi Akinkugbe, Athens, Greece from Ondo Ali M. Magashi, Seoul, South Korea from Jigawa *Among career diplomats, the following are some of the notable postings Rome, Italy- M.O Abam from Cross River Paris, France-A.E Alleboy Deputy Ambassador from Cross River NY, United Nations- G.E. Edokpa Deputy Permanent Representative Havana, Cuba, Ben Okoyen from Bayelsa Geneva, Switzerland- G.M Okeke from Benue Deputy Head of Mission S.Sani to London, UK as Deputy Ambassador I.R. Ocheni to Berlin, Germany from Kogi N.A Kolo to Tel Aviv, Israel from Niger M.I. Bashir-Deputy Ambassador to US from Borno A.N Madubike from Enugu State is posted to Canberra, Australia I.A Iwejuo from Imo to Addis Ababa, Ethiopia as Deputy Ambassador O.C Onowu posted to Brussels, Belgium from Anambra A. Sule from Kano posted to New Delhi, India G.Y. Hamza Ghana from Kano I A Alatishe from Osun posted to Moscow, Russia as Deputy Ambassador Vanguard News Nigeria By Victoria Ojeme and Fortune Eromosele The federal government has finally, announced the posting of Ambassador-Designates to Nigerian Missions abroad. In a statement signed by the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ambassador Gabriel Aduda, said that President Muhammadu Buhari has approved the posting of Ambassador-Designates to Nigerian Missions abroad,… January 13, 2021 In "News" Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Geoffrey Onyeama, says the rejected list of 47 non-career ambassadors will be re-submitted when the Senate resumes from recess. December 23, 2016 In "News" President Muhammadu Buhari has deployed some of the newly confirmed ambassadors to foreign missions in U.S, Ethiopia and other countries. March 31, 2017 In "News"