Many churches in Nigeria have abandoned physical worship services to online services since the outbreak of covid-19 in the country. This is to stem the spread of the virus. However, Winner’s chapel, Daystar, House on the Rock Church and few other churches have announced their preparedness for tomorrows service. Tomorrow’s service will be both physical and online despite the fact that Nigeria Centre For Disease Control NCDC, reported 1,074  new infections of the Coronavirus in the country. The country has so far tested 948,048 people since the first confirmed case of COVID-19 was announced on Feb. 27,  2020. The agency put the total number of COVID-19 infected people in the country at 88,587. However, worshippers are advised to come with their family members to celebrate the first 2021 Sunday service. House on the Rock Church announced, “Get a Fresh Start in this New Year, join us as we partake of the Holy Communion this Sunday at the Rock Cathedral, Lekki from 9am. Register on our website, and come with your facemask and QRCode. All Covid-19 protocols will be strictly adhered to.” While, Winners Chapel said: “3rd of January 2021, the first Sunday for the year 2021 shall be a Prophetic Entrance into the Month of January. It shall also double as a Special Communion Service, which shall prepare us for the journey ahead into the 21 days of prayer and fasting. Come along with your family members, friends and other loved ones. Jesus is Lord”. Similarly, “A NEW BEGINNING SERVICE! We are beyond excited about coming together to give thanks, tomorrow and all year long. Service holds at all our physical centres and online.” A NEW BEGINNING SERVICE!
We are beyond excited about coming together to give thanks, tomorrow and all year long. Service holds at all our physical centres and online. Register at https://t.co/RxNrDLpXk6 Forward link to 5 friends.#NewBeginnings #DaystarNG #DaystarOnline pic.twitter.com/Yce73ifBDn — DaystarNG (@DaystarNG) January 2, 2021   Vanguard News Nigeria Following the directive of the Lagos State Government to restrict public gathering for religious activities with more than 50 worshippers over the COVID19 pandemic, Daystar Church has suspended physical gathering for service. A statement signed by senior pastors, Sam and Nike Adeyemi read that from the weekend of March 21st,… March 19, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" Coronavirus disease which started in Wuhan, China in December 2019 has become a global pandemic within a couple of months claiming thousands of lives on a daily basis. As medical scientists battle to find vaccine to tackle and to prevent the disease, every country has adopted measures to halt its… May 16, 2020 In "News" ...Inaugurates 43-man monitoring, compliance C'ttee ...Religious leaders okay measures, assure of compliance By Olasunkanmi Akoni Barely 24 hours to the partial re-opening of worship centres, Lagos State Government, on Thursday, released several safety protocols and guidelines numbering 46 that must be adhered to during services in the first phase. Also,… August 6, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"