Unknown gunmen suspected to be bandits have in the wee hours of Friday stormed Radda community in Charanchi local government area of Katsina State and whisked away from the village head, Kabir Umar. It was gathered that Umar’s younger brother, Aminu Umar was also shot on his leg by the bandits before whisking away with the village head. A source in the area who spoke on condition of anonymity said the incident happened at about 2:00 am on Friday morning when the gunmen stormed the area shooting sporadically into the air to cause chaos. He said, “the bandits came in their numbers on motorcycle shooting sporadically. They went to the residence of the village head, Kabir Umar where they shot his younger brother, Aminu Umar before Kidnapping him (the village head). “Aminu was shot on his leg and has been taken to Katsina Orthopedic hospital where the bullet will be removed,” the source said. When contacted, the spokesperson of the Katsina State Police Command, SP Gambo Isah confirmed the incident. “Yes, the incident happened. No arrest has been made,” SP Isah stated. Vanguard News Nigeria Following the kidnap of Mallam Musa Umar, the District Head of Daura, the home town of President of Muhammadu Buhari, the residents of the town have been gripped with fear even as they believed the abduction was carried out purposely to ridicule the president. May 4, 2019 In "News" *We rescued 200—Police *Over 406 found – Commissioner *Masari closes all schools *Buhari orders army, police to go after attackers *Atiku faults security agencies’ style By Bashir Bello There was confusion, yesterday, over the actual number of students kidnapped  at  Government Science Secondary School, Kankara in Kankara Local Government Area… December 13, 2020 In "News" By Andy Asemota Tragedy struck at Gidangizo village in Faskari Local Government Area of Katsina State on Wednesday as gunmen killed one victim and abducted two sisters of the same father. The victim, who met his untimely death, Nasiru Halilu, aged 37 years, was said to have engaged the bandits… August 12, 2020 In "News"