As COVID-19 cases continue to rise across the country, BUA has donated three ambulances and 100,000 face masks to Yobe State government as part of its social support and humanitarian commitment to combat the COVID-19 pandemic. While presenting the donations on behalf of the Chairman of BUA Group, Abdul Samad Rabiu at the Government House, Damaturu, Aliyu Idi Hong, Director of Government Relations, BUA Group, commended Governor Mai Mala Buni of Yobe State “for his tireless efforts in curbing the COVID-19 pandemic in the state”. According to Hong, “So far, the Chairman of BUA Group, Abdul Samad Rabiu, has given more than eight billion naira worth of support to towards the fight against COVID-19 in Nigeria. “With the second wave spreading across Nigeria, we are expanding the scope of our intervention to various states and will continue to support initiatives aimed at helping to curb the spread of the virus in Nigeria.” Reacting, Governor Buni thanked Abdul Samad Rabiu, Chairman/Founder BUA Group, for his humanitarian gesture to the nation, especially to Yobe State. The governor noted that the “donation is coming at the right time because of the second wave of the pandemic.” He urged Yobe people to adhere strictly to the Covid-19 preventive measures by wearing face masks, keeping social distance and washing their hands. Vanguard News Nigeria BUA Group has donated three ambulances and 100,000 face masks to Borno State government to combat COVID-19. This is coming barely a day after 418 new cases of COVID-19 were recorded in 16 states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja. December 14, 2020 In "News" As COVID-19 cases continue to rise in Nigeria, BUA Group, one of Africa’s leading foods and infrastructure companies has donated three ambulances and 50,000 facemasks to Bauchi State in line with its continued efforts to combat the spread of the virus in the country. December 7, 2020 In "Business" In its continued effort to combat the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic in Nigeria, one of Africa’s leading foods and infrastructure conglomerates, BUA Group, has donated three fully-equipped ambulances and 50,000 reusable face masks to the Gombe State government. December 8, 2020 In "Business"