President Muhammadu Buhari has welcomed inauguration Vice-President Joe Biden and Kamala Harris as President and Vice President of the United States of America. In a statement by his spokesman, Malam Garba Shehu, in Abuja on Wednesday, Buhari expressed hope that their presidency would mark a strong point of cooperation and support for Nigeria as well as the African continent. Buhari congratulated the leaders and entire country on the successful transition. According to him, this marks an important historical inflection point for democracy as a system of government and for the global community as a whole. He said: “We look forward to the Biden presidency with great hope and optimism for strengthening of existing cordial relationships, working together to tackle global terrorism, climate change, poverty and improvement of economic ties and expansion of trade. “We hope that this will be an era of great positivity between our two nations, as we jointly address issues of mutual interest.” Buhari said all Nigerians rejoiced with President Biden, ”sharing the proud feeling that the first woman elected Vice President of the United States has an African and Asian ancestry.” PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari has congratulated the new United States of America, USA President, Joe Biden and the Vice President, Senator Kamala Harris as they took the oath of office on Wednesday. January 20, 2021 In "News" More congratulatory messages from African leaders have continued to pour into Washington following the election of Democratic candidate Joe Biden as the 46th president of the United States of America. The latest messages came from Sudan, South Africa, Kenya, Libya, Ghana and Mauritania – all of them highlighting the need… November 9, 2020 In "News" *Buhari, Atiku, world leaders hail victory *It is victory of good over evil – Obasanjo By Tony Nwankwo, with agency reports Joseph Robinette Biden Jr. was elected the 46th president of the United States (US), yesterday, promising to restore political normalcy and a spirit of national unity to confront raging… November 8, 2020 In "Foreign"