The perennial gridlock along the Apapa/Oshodi expressway, Lagos, reached its height tonight, as all exit points leading in and out of the route from the Berger Yard end, were blocked by deviant truck drivers. Sadly, policemen, officials of the Lagos State Traffic Management Authority, LASTMA, and other traffic officials saddled with the responsibility of controlling traffic along the axis, looked the other way, as motorists were stranded for hours. As of 9pm, some administrative staff of Vanguard who left the office since 6.30p.m. were still trapped in the gridlock. Trucks were also parked along the only entrance leading in and out of Vanguard‘s corporate headquarters. Investigation revealed that rather than control the truck drivers to keep to a lane, in order to allow other road users access, policemen and other concerned officials were busy collecting ‘tolls’ from them (truck drivers). The Area  ‘B’ Commander, Assistant Commissioner of Police, ACP, Akinbayo Olasoji, under whose jurisdiction the axis falls, was not seen on the ground. This brazen disregard for traffic rules by truck drivers has been ongoing for over five years, despite threats by the federal and state governments to sanction them accordingly. At the time of writing this report, vehicular movement was still at a standstill. Motorists could not navigate their ways through the three alternative roads that lead to the expressway, outward Apapa. Vanguard News Nigeria For two days running, vehicular movement in most parts of the state have been grounded, with commercial activities paralysed. No thanks to the chaotic gridlock which seemed to have overwhelmed government agencies saddled with the responsibility of controlling the free flow of traffic. September 23, 2015 In "News" The Commissioner of Police, Lagos State Police Command , Imohimi Edgal, yesterday, said that the command would partner with the Lagos State Traffic Management Authority, LASTMA , with a view to finding a lasting solution to the traffic congestion along the Oshodi/ Apapa expressway and other major roads in Lagos. November 7, 2017 In "News" There seems to be no end in sight for residents and motorists along Oshodi-Apapa Expressway following persistent traffic gridlock caused by the activities of truck and tanker drivers who park indiscriminately on the road. June 3, 2019 In "News"