Following the penchant for criminals to take advantage of bad spots in Abia State, Governor Okezie Ikpeazu has given the Ministry of Works a seven-day ultimatum to fix such areas. Governor Ikpeazu expressed sadness with the rise in crimes in such spots, one of which is Akara Junction in Isuikwuato Local Government Area of the state, noting the spike in attacks on POS vendors in Aba. He said: “I frown seriously at this turn of events and have charged the law enforcement agencies to dominate all affected spaces around Isuikwuato axis. “On that note, I am relieved by the reassurances of the law enforcement agencies to me that they will apprehend the culprits and ensure the concerned localities are rid of crime. “As a measure to remove the factors enabling crime in Isuikwuato, the Ministry of Works has been ordered to repair the failed portions of that federal road within seven days even as we are determined to emplace a permanent checkpoint around the notorious spot. “On Aba, we are determined and have put machinery in motion to arrest, within 10 days, the few criminals who operate on tricycles. “However, for these measures being put in place to have the desired results, I urge all stakeholders including traditional rulers, vigilante groups, POS operators and the general public to cooperate with the law enforcement agencies, with whom we had a security meeting to review the situation, in releasing actionable information about suspected characters within our state. “With the mode of operation of these criminals, it becomes imperative now as always for the leadership of Keke operators to purge themselves of criminal elements or face dire consequences. “Abia has to remain the most peaceful state in Nigeria. Another Security Council meeting of the state will hold within 14 days to review the progress on all fronts.” I acknowledge with sadness the sudden rise in violent crime around a bad spot before Akara Junction in Isuikwuato LGA of our dear State, Abia, and the recent spike in attacks on POS vendors in Aba! I frown seriously at this turn of events and have charged the law… 1/ pic.twitter.com/KhoDRjLacO — Okezie Ikpeazu (@GovernorIkpeazu) January 30, 2021  Vanguard News Nigeria After watching the video of the governorship campaign launch of factional candidate of All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) in Abia State, Mazi Alex Otti,  it dawned on me that he just might be a closet fan of Governor Okezie Ikpeazu’s school of good governance, only that quest for the title… December 17, 2018 In "News" UMUAHIA—FOLLOWING the new upsurge of violent crimes, especially kidnapping in Abia State, particularly in Aba and its environs, Governor Okezie Ikpeazu has introduced a reward system to tackle crime as he announced a N1 Million reward for useful information to track down criminals in the State. April 26, 2017 In "News" ABA: ABIA State Governor, Dr. Okezie Ikpeazu has commended the Abia State Command of National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) for successfully raiding and destroying notorious illegal drugs camp in Aba. May 14, 2020 In "News"