The Independent National Electoral Commission INEC has again asked job-seekers to discountenance any purported offer of employment from the commission, saying it is not currently recruiting. INEC National Commissioner and Chairman of its Information and Voter Education Committee, Barr. Festus Okoye in a statement on Friday said it had become necessary to once again draw the attention of members of the public to the activities of fake employment merchants and racketeers who open fake employment websites, collect money from unsuspecting members of the public and issue fake employment letters purporting to be acting on behalf of the Commission. It would be recalled that on the 30th of May 2020, the Commission issued a statement drawing the attention of the public to the circulation of purported letters of employment/appointment allegedly emanating from it. “We had informed members of the public that the Commission suspended its recruitment programme. We advised everyone to discountenance all rumours of recruitment and letters of employment/recruitment purportedly emanating from the Commission and duly informed the security agencies of the scam. “The Commission deems it necessary to once again reiterate that it is not recruiting at this time. The recruitment of fresh graduates and experienced professionals has since been suspended. “The Commission is a public trust and has always conducted its activities in the best tradition of openness and transparency. This policy of transparency informs the wide publicity given to its recruitment drive any time the Commission embarks on such. “Once more we call on the public to be conscious of the antics of fraudsters and not to fall victim to their criminal activities. INEC is not recruiting at this moment”, the commission stated. Vanguard News Nigeria THE lawmaker representing Ogun East Senatorial District, Senator Buruji Kashamu, has formally written the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC; Department of State Services, DSS and the Police asking them  to disregard his expulsion by the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP. August 7, 2018 In "News" The Young Democratic Party (YDP) has said that it did not initiate any contempt proceedings against the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). May 24, 2017 In "News" The Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, has again, dispelled rumours of any leadership crisis in the Labour Party, LP, saying Alhaji Abdulkadir Abdulsalam remains the authentic National Chairman of the party. April 26, 2018 In "News"