Rivers State Police Command has opened investigation following the discovery of the corpse  of 20-year-old Beauty Nwigbaranee, a final year student of the Department of Education, Rivers State University, in a mortuary. The said lady had allegedly visited a Port Harcourt based clergyman who is believed to be her lover, on the 25th of December, and never returned home. The cleric, who was arrested by the operatives of Garrison of the 6 Division of the Nigerian Army, Port Harcourt, was later handed over to Rivers State Police Command. When contacted, the Public Relations Officer of the Rivers State Police Command, SP. Nnamdi Omoni, said police have commenced investigation into the matter. However, the counsel for the family of the missing lady, Gobari Deebom, told Sunday Vanguard that the corpse of the lady found in a mortuary in Ahoada Area of Rivers State, on Wednesday. He said the family got hint that the corpse was deposited at a  mortuary in Ahoada on the 26th of December by an undisclosed person. Deebom said the family visited the mortuary and identified the corpse as that of their daughter, but wondered why the family was not alerted till ten days after. The counsel regretted that the corpse had no bruises to link the death to be as a result of ghastly motor accident. He expressed regret that the police granted bail to the suspect in the case when they had not concluded investigation into the matter. Deebom therefore urged the Inspector General of Police to intervene in the matter and ensure that justice is done. Vanguard News Nigeria By Davies Iheamnachor, Port-Harcourt There has been a twist following the discovery of the remains of 20-year-old Beauty Nwigbaranee, a final year student of the Department of Education, Rivers State University, in a mortuary. The said lady had allegedly visited a Port Harcourt based clergyman, Pastor Sodje Masodje, who is… January 9, 2021 In "News" PORT HARCOURT—Operatives of Rivers State Police Command have exhumed the remains of Bertha Nwabueze, a young lady killed and buried by her lover in his bedroom. December 7, 2018 In "Crime Guard" By Egufe Yafugborhi MEN of Rivers State Police Command on Friday exhumed decomposing corpses of three undergraduates of the University of Port Harcourt (Uniport) kidnapped at Choba, Obio Akpor Local Government Area (LGA), host community to the varsity 7 April 2020. Nnamdi Omoni, Police Public Relations Officer, Rivers Command, who… May 1, 2020 In "News"