The Zonal Coordinator of the Atiku Support Organisation, ASO, Alozie Alozie, has charged the newly-appointed state executives to be hardworking and dedicated to the goal of ASO. He said this at the inaugural meeting of the Ebonyi State chapter of ASO in Abakiliki, the state capital, to kick-off its activities in the state. Addressing the new executives, Alozie urged them to ensure they work hard to promote the organisation and ensure that the gospel of Atiku Abubakar reaches every corner of the state. In her reaction, the Ebonyi State Coordinator, Adamma Obasi, thanked the zonal coordinator for the privilege while assuring him that the entire state excos are ready to work and ensure victory for the organisation. Present at the meeting was the Deputy Zonal Coordinator, Dr Chukwu O’Brien. Others were state executive members present at the inaugural meeting included Mrs. Adamma Obasi; Dr Chidubem Osuagwu, Assistant Secretary-General; Mimie Edwin-crown, Women Leader; Nwaji Collins Sunday; Mrs. Emeka Helen, Deputy Women Leader. Also, Prince Okwara Agwu; Odoma Nnenna Favour; Elder Eni O. Eni; Igwe Esther Ifunanya; Ugwu Godwin; Nweri  James, Assistant Public Secretary; Egbe Stanley, Assistant Youth Leader; Amoke Udoka Livinus, Ezza North Coordinator, were also present. Umahi Nmamdi, Ohaozara Coordinator; Osey Michaels; Nwachukwu Onyinye, Special Adviser to the Zonal Coordinator; Ofoeke Nelson Matts,  Personal Assistant to the Zonal Coordinator; and George Akpa, Publicity Secretary. Ogbonnaya Emmanuel, Youth Leader; Anagu Christopher, State Director, Contact and Mobilisation; Nwibo Chidiebere, Coordinator, Izzi LGA; Onwe Emmanuel, State Director, Contact and Mobilisation 2; Okike Ogoh Beatrice; Augustine Ezike, LGA Coordinator, and Ndukwe James, Financial Secretary. Vanguard News Nigeria The South-East Zonal Coordinator of Atiku Support Organisation, ASO, Alozie Alozie, has said restructuring the country to make it work again was more important to the South-East region than the presidency in 2023. January 24, 2021 In "Politics" The Enugu State chapter of the Atiku Support Organisation, ASO, has held its inaugural meeting to kick start its activities in the state. January 16, 2021 In "Politics" By Gabriel Olawale The former Vice President  Atiku Abubakar has inaugurated a youth based  Campaign Organisation, the Atiku Support Organisation (ASO), under the chairmanship of his son, Mohammed  Atiku Abubakar. Speaking during the inauguration in Abuja, the Director General of the Organisation, Mohammed Babawo said that ASO left no stone… December 19, 2020 In "News"