Device maker, Samsung, has launched a brand new addition to the Galaxy A series, the Galaxy A12, saying it provides an option for device lovers with moderate income. According to the company, the stylish rear quad camera design features a 48MP main camera together with the 6.5-inch large display and 5,000mAh massive battery. It explained that the Galaxy A12 is the affordable device that offers an incredibly wide array of features Nigerians want. Speaking during the launch, Head of Marketing at Samsung Nigeria, Iretiogo Oke, said: “With the launch of the Galaxy A12, Samsung Nigeria has entered the new year with a strong commitment to providing Galaxy fans with the amazing features at an unbelievable price. “Through these new devices, A12, A02s and A02, we continue to showcase our commitment to listening to the needs of the Nigerian consumers and providing innovation for all,” she said. Oke also explained that Galaxy A12 is equipped with a stylishly designed quad rear camera so one can easily capture memorable moments and share happiness with friends and families.  She used the opportunity to unveil the face of Galaxy A series, Joseph Akinfenwa popularly known as Joeboy, who also commended Samsung’s continuous drive in endearing their brands to consumers. She noted that the Galaxy A12 is available in three vivid and unique colours: black, white and blue. Key unique features include: *Awesome Power The Galaxy A12 has a massive 5,000mAh battery reservoir, enough power to make sure one gets through the day uninterrupted. *Awesome Performance It also houses 4GB RAM with optional 64GB or 128 GB internal memories. The A12’s powerful Octa-core 2.3 GHz MTK 6765 processor is optimised for gaming, so one can play favourite games seamlessly.  In line with its commitment to deepen financial inclusion and drive its digitization agenda, Financial Institution, Stanbic IBTC Holdings PLC, a member of Standard Bank Group, recently launched the Stanbic IBTC @ease wallet. November 6, 2019 In "Technology" Committed to innovation and discovery in the Information Technology ecosystem, one of the world's largest makers of mobile handsets, Samsung Electronics, last week in Lagos formally unveiled its long awaited Galaxy S5 smartphone, alongside the latest in its industry-leading wearable device line, the Gear Fit and Gear 2, with a… April 21, 2014 In "Technology" BY EMEKA AGINAM As the battle for market share in the smart phone ecosystem heightens, Samsung electronics at the weekend started singing a new song with its latest flagship,the Galaxy Note 4. The introduction of the new product, according to market findings, may have deepened fresh competition in the mobile… October 27, 2014 In "Technology"