The Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) has moved against illicit financial outflow and to improve tax compliance among multi-nationals operating in the country, as its Executive Chairman, Mr Muhammad Nami, said that Nigeria reportedly lost $178 billion to tax evasion by multi-nationals in ten years. He made the disclosure in his opening remarks at a workshop on Effective Audit of Multinational Corporations for Domestic Revenue Mobilisation in Nigeria, in Abuja, yesterday, according to a statement by the Director of Communications and Liaison Department, Mr Abdullahi Ahmad. Mr Nami said that “between 2007 and 2017” Nigeria was “reported to have lost over US$178 billion (about N5.4 trillion at today’s rate) through tax evasion by Multinationals” doing business in the country. He also cited a 2014 report by the High-Level Panel on Illicit Financial Flows from Africa, which stated that “Nigeria accounted for 30.5% of the money lost by the continent through illicit financial flows.” According to him, 35 additional Tax Audit Units were created across the country, last year, to ensure that companies operating in the country paid appropriate taxes. Mr Nami expressed worries that “many rich Multinational Corporations do not pay the right taxes due from them, let alone pay their taxes voluntarily.” According to him, “At the FIRS we are paying greater attention to tax audit in general and Transfer Pricing audit in particular in order to improve the level of tax compliance in the country. As a result, in the last one year, we have created more than 35 additional Tax Audit Units and deployed experienced and capable staff to take charge of these offices.” The FIRS boss charged participants at the workshop to come up with “a novel methodology that would be used to uncover illicit financial flows” and “provide an overview of related policy options for enhancing tax revenue collection in general,” Given the recent decline of oil resources, which had been the major revenue earner for the country, Mr. Nami said, “taxation is expected to continue to shoulder the Government’s Budget performance the way it did in 2020.” He added, “This underscores the importance of this workshop, as tax audit of Multinational Corporations is very crucial in Nigeria’s domestic revenue mobilisation. “For me, this Workshop is an important step towards boosting compliance level; and, I have strong hopes that its outcome will further increase our efforts at driving tax compliance among Multinational Corporations in Nigeria.” Vanguard News Nigeria The Executive Chairman Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS), Mr. Muhammad Nami, has blamed non-discretionary tax waivers, illicit financial outflows and high overhead costs for the organisation’s failure to meet its tax revenue targets in recent times. February 14, 2020 In "Business" The Federal Inland Revenue Service, FIRS, said it would rake in N4 trillion as tax revenue from the extractive sector this year. March 3, 2020 In "News" The Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) says it is working towards blocking about 10 billion dollars tax leakages by multinational corporations operating in the country who engaged in illicit profit shifting. FIRS Executive Chairman, Mr Muhammad Nami said this at the 2020 Corporate Plan Retreat of the service in Abuja… February 7, 2020 In "News"