The World Health Organisation (WHO) researchers on Thursday, after the end of their quarantine in China, began investigations hoping to learn more about the origins of COVID-19. China had required that the team spend a 14-day quarantine period in a hotel before they could begin their investigations in the city of Wuhan, where the virus is believed to have crossed from animals to humans in 2019. China has disputed the theory that the disease started in Wuhan, even though that is the site of the first known instances of the disease, possibly because it does not want to be blamed as the source of the pandemic. It has lashed out against countries like Australia for demanding an investigation. The WHO mission there was delayed at least once due to visa paperwork problems. But Chinese state TV reported on Thursday that the team would get started. The 13 experts want to conduct interviews and visit hospitals. They also plan to go to the food market where the coronavirus that causes COVID-19 was first encountered. The team has spent the two weeks of quarantine conducting video conferences with Chinese colleagues. But the researchers are playing down expectations, saying their main goal is to see which paths of inquiry are still open. Vanguard News Nigeria An international team of experts is heading to China to study the origin of the Covid-19 outbreak in Wuhan, but not to assign blame for the pandemic, World Health Organization (WHO) leaders said on Monday. The WHO officials spoke after Chinese authorities confirmed that the experts were set to arrive… January 12, 2021 In "News" China on Thursday reported its first death from Covid-19 in eight months as the country battles to contain a resurgence in cases and prepares for the arrival of an expert team from the WHO. More than 20 million people are under lockdown in the north of the country and one… January 14, 2021 In "Coronavirus Updates" An international team of experts tasked with studying the origin of the Coronavirus (COVID-19) outbreak has arrived in the central Chinese city of Wuhan, officials confirmed on Thursday. Their arrival was delayed after a protracted tug-of-war about the trip. Upon arrival, the researchers were tested for the coronavirus and asked… January 14, 2021 In "News"