A court in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja, on Monday discharged four out of six protesters arrested in November for demonstrating outside the National Assembly. Last year, the nation was swept by weeks of widespread #EndSARS protests sparked by anger over brutality from the police’s loathed Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS). The government disbanded the unit and pledged reforms but still struggled to contain the largest challenge to Nigeria’s governing elite in decades. The six defendants were arrested on November 8, 2020 and charged with unlawful assembly. Defence lawyer Henry Akwaji requested the case be dismissed because the prosecution team was absent from court on Monday. The court agreed and dismissed the case due to a lack of diligent prosecution. “Defendants, Olutosin Adeniji, Abdusalam Zubarur, Paul Akinwumi, and Devour Chomo are discharged and the complaint against them dismissed,” magistrate Musa Eneye ruled. The remaining two, Yasidu Bashiru and Kabiru Garzali, according to AFP were absent from court due to illness. The case against them was adjourned until March 24. Vanguard News Nigeria ABUJA - The Centre for Liberty has advised members of the judiciary to be wary of what comes out of politicians who seek to clampdown on #EndSARS protesters, especially those in positions of authority, so as not to be misled into ruining "the sanctity of Nigeria's democracy." November 8, 2020 In "News" …How Police deceived me to arrest my brother, Eromosele Adene, in Lagos – Sister …Says brother has liver problems, begs for his release …My client moved to Abuja, denied bail, police playing hide-and-seek, says Lawyer …Police deny arresting protesters •We will meet in court- Dr Pam Pam …Stop harassing innocent… November 11, 2020 In "News" …I see nothing wrong in freezing promoters’ accounts  — Akeredolu …You can’t kill protests with terror, SMBLF tells Buhari …Freezing their accounts may trigger another protest — Ohanaeze …Treat issue  with utmost care — PANDEF tells FG …Witch-hunt approach wrong — Concerned Professionals …NBA, CSOs blast Akeredolu, describe him as… November 12, 2020 In "News"