Amnesty International has accused President Donald Trump of instigating Capitol Hill riot in Washington. Pro-Trump had yesterday stormed Capitol to protest alleged electoral fraud experienced in the November 3 presidential election. An unidentified woman was shot dead during the protest and many were reportedly injured. Recall that Trump who lost the popular and Electoral College vote had continued to dispute the election results, without evidence, and has encouraged his supporters to attend the rallies. He took the stage about noon to roaring crowds, falsely claiming he had won the election. In view of that, Amnesty International opined: “Trump has incited violence & intimidation, as he continued to refuse accepting election results. These are not actions of a leader, but an instigator. Trump’s embrace of white supremacist groups & extremists has further fanned the flames of chaos & violence we witnessed.” Trump has incited violence & intimidation, as he continued to refuse accepting election results. These are not actions of a leader, but an instigator. Trump’s embrace of white supremacist groups & extremists has further fanned the flames of chaos & violence we witnessed. — Amnesty International (@amnesty) January 7, 2021  Vanguard News Nigeria World leaders condemn 'assault on democracy' at US Capitol World leaders and governments on Wednesday expressed shock and outrage at the storming of the US Capitol in Washington by supporters of President Donald Trump. - Britain - British Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Twitter condemned the "disgraceful scenes in U.S.… January 7, 2021 In "Foreign" Chief Femi Fani-Kayode, a former Nigerian minister of culture and tourism and a frontline supporter of outgoing United States president, Donald Trump, has condemned in strong terms the invasion of the United States Capitol Hill where electors were gathered to confirm the electoral victory of President-elect Joe Biden. January 7, 2021 In "Politics" President Donald Trump has called for calm as Capitol Hill witnesses messy protests in the United States. Trump's supporters, in a solidarity march, went berserk, destroying properties. Security Operatives have stepped in to restore some peace. READ ALSO: Breaking: Police evacuate US Congress offices as Trump supporters protest in Capitol Hill:… January 6, 2021 In "Foreign"