The South African military has amended its dress policy to allow Muslim women to wear headscarves as part of their uniform, an army spokesperson said Thursday. In January last year, a military court dropped charges against an officer who had been indicted for wearing a hijab under her military beret. Major Fatima Isaacs had been criminally charged in June 2018 with wilful defiance and failing to obey lawful instructions after her superior asked her to remove her headscarf when in uniform. A military court at the Castle of Good Hope near Cape Town withdrew all charges in January 2020, allowing Isaacs to exceptionally wear a tight black head wrap on duty as long as it did not cover her ears. But the military did not amend its dress policy, prompting Isaacs to mount a challenge in South Africa’s equality court over regulations restricting religious wear. The South African Defence Force (SANDF) eventually agreed to amend its policy this week and allow all Muslim women to cover their heads while on duty. “The SANDF dress regulation was updated to allow the wearing of headscarves by Muslim (women) according to stipulations in the dress regulations,” spokesman Mafi Mgobozi told AFP via WhatsApp on Thursday. The South Africa-based Legal Resources Centre, which represented Isaacs, welcomed the decision via Twitter on Wednesday and said it was withdrawing the equality court case. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria •Says: We won’t tolerate it again •As ten Muslim bodies join forces •Muslim women condemn killing of CAN leader As Muslim women in Nigeria join their counterparts across the world tomorrow to mark the World Hijab Day tomorrow, the National Amirah of Al-Mu’minaat Organisation, (the Believing women) Hajia Nimatullah Abdulquadri… January 31, 2020 In "News" CAN, NSCIA react NYSC: We are not biased NYSC: We are not biased By Joseph Erunke - Abuja For over five years now, the National Youth Service Corps, NYSC, has been locked in a battle with some female corps members, who because of their religious beliefs and personal convictions, are… February 6, 2020 In "Education" South Africa's army has withdrawn charges brought against a Muslim officer who refused to take off her headscarf in 2018. Maj. Fatima Isaacs was charged with willful defiance and disobeying a lawful command after she failed to comply when her superior asked her to remove her headscarf. READ ALSO: Strike suspended… January 22, 2020 In "News"