The Manufacturers Association of Nigeria, MAN, has called on the Federal Government to address the infrastructural deficit in the country to make the nation truly competitive following the take-off of the African Continental Trade Agreement, AfCTA, this month. MAN also expressed fears that unless proper implementation of the rule of origin, Nigeria may become a global dumping ground. Speaking with Vanguard, MAN’s Director of Economics and Statistics, Ambrose Oruche, said the government must quickly address infrastructure issues like roads, as well as prioritise manufacturing in terms of interest rates on loans and easy access to imported raw materials. He warned that unless safety measures are put in place to prevent foreign goods being repackaged as goods made in Africa, the Nation will definitely become a dumping ground for such goods. Oruche stated: “AfCTA is supposed to be beneficial to us because we have more manufactured goods across the region that we can think of, but if we are not careful it might be harmful to us in the sense that we could experience trans-shipment and people packaging something that is made in China, labelling it made in Africa. “It is something we have to be careful about to avoid Nigeria becoming a dumping ground for foreign-made products. If the rule of origin is implemented and safety measures are adopted to avoid dumping, Nigeria will be able to take advantage and benefit from it. “We have to look at our competitiveness and what makes us uncompetitive.  For instance, addressing the issue of infrastructural deficit, the high cost of funds, interest rate, talk about prioritising manufacturing, and giving them access to forex, taking care of regulatory challenges,” he noted.  On October 29, 2008, Dr. Simon Chukwuemeka Okolo MFR, was elected and inaugurated the 48th national president of Nigerian Association of Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (NACCIMA). This made him the leader of the Organized Private Sector (OPS) made up of NACCIMA, MAN and NECA. In this interview… June 7, 2009 In "Business" AS the frenzy over the delay, the rigmarole and the eventual assent to the African Continental Free Trade Agreement, AfCTA, dies down, we draw attention to the task ahead given its implications to Nigeria’s economy. July 29, 2019 In "Editorial" Worried about Nigeria’s overdependence on drug importation and donor funds, the  Pharmaceutical Manufacturer’s Group of Manufacturers Association of Nigeria, PMG-MAN, says nothing short of national sufficiency and medicine security could take the country out of the woods. September 3, 2019 In "Health"