As part of measures to stem the spread of COVID -19 in Benue, the State Executive Council, SEC, has placed a total ban on public gatherings and restricted religious worshippers to 50 at a time. The decision was made known on Wednesday by the Commissioner for Information, Culture and Tourism, Mrs. Ngunan Addingi, at the end of the weekly SEC meeting in Makurdi and presided over by the Deputy Governor, Mr. Benson Abounu. According to the Commissioner, SEC resolved that a religious gathering of over 50 people would not be allowed anywhere in the state. “Attendance in churches/mosques must not be more than 50 people at a time. All shops and supermarkets must ensure that those coming in are wearing their face masks and such places must have water and soap for the washing of hands or hand sanitizers for use by customers. “Bars and restaurants will only provide partial services as only takeaways will be made available to customers,” she said. Mrs. Addingi said the SEC also resolved that commercial bus operators would be allowed to convey seven passengers at a time, while commercial motorcycle operators would be allowed a passenger at a time. She said the Council approved January 18 as the resumption date for schools in the state, warning that “schools will be strictly monitored to ensure that they maintain and observe all Covid-19 protocols. “The SEC directed that those with large number of students will stagger their programmes to ensure that the students and pupils are not overcrowded. “Benue State University, Makurdi, will also resume on January 18 as scheduled with arrangements in place to ensure safety in the institution,” Addingi said.  Vanguard News Nigeria Hold Jumaat prayers in Makurdi By Peter Duru - Makurdi Muslims in Makurdi the Benue state capital Friday held their Jumaat prayers in defiance of the state government’s order banning congregational and religious gatherings to check the spread of COVID-19 in the state. The state government had last Tuesday after… March 27, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" Muslims in Makurdi the Benue state capital Friday held their Jumaat prayers in defiance of the state government’s order banning congregational and religious gatherings to check the spread of COVID-19 in the state. March 27, 2020 In "News" …8pm-6am curfew in Ekiti,  public gathering more than 20 banned …Buhari should wear face-mask in public as role model — TOMORI …Obaseki urges banks to intensify efforts to curb Covid-19 second wave …How vaccines’ll be administered — NPHCDA …Frontline workers, adults, uniformed personnel, high burden states top priority list …84,655,749… January 11, 2021 In "Coronavirus Updates"