The office of the Edo State Head of Service (HoS) has been closed because four staff of the office have tested positive to COVID-19 despite strict instruction of compliance to the disease’ safety protocols. This development led to the Head of Service, Anthony Okungbowa moving around all ministries to preach compliance to the safety protocol not only in the office but everywhere as he said the affected staff may have contracted the diseases in their post office work activities. Meanwhile, the state government has said 39 healthcare workers in the state have been infected with the disease in the last 72 hours. Permanent Secretary, Edo State Ministry of Health, Dr Osamwonyi Irowa, during a press briefing in Benin City, said case management for critical care is being strengthened to ensure effective management of severe cases of COVID-19. He expressed worry over the increasing rate of infection among healthcare workers in the state who are critical to the fight against the spread of the disease, noting, “We have the challenge of healthcare workers infected with COVID-19. In the last 72 hours, we have had 39 healthcare workers infected with the virus. “This is critical to us because they are in the frontline taking care of persons who have tested positive or not positive. It is important and necessary to ensure that they are duly protected and comply with the COVID-19 protocols.” He said the 39 health workers who have tested positive in the last 72 hours are from the various healthcare centres managing active cases in the state. “It is our duty to pull the infected healthcare workers out of the system so that they will not infect others.” “We are doing everything possible to ensure that the healthcare workers are protected by way of ensuring the use of appropriate PPEs. We also urge them to follow the protocols already designed and being implemented in Edo State. “The State has procured additional PPEs for distribution to health facilities across the State to address rising healthcare workers’ infection and decontamination of facilities affected with strict measures to ensure compliance to standard precaution and other IPC preventive measures,” Irowa added. Vanguard News Nigeria Edo State government has insisted that it will not allow workers and visitors without face masks into government offices as part of measures to check the spread of the second wave of coronavirus (COVID-19). January 13, 2021 In "News" …8pm-6am curfew in Ekiti,  public gathering more than 20 banned …Buhari should wear face-mask in public as role model — TOMORI …Obaseki urges banks to intensify efforts to curb Covid-19 second wave …How vaccines’ll be administered — NPHCDA …Frontline workers, adults, uniformed personnel, high burden states top priority list …84,655,749… January 11, 2021 In "Coronavirus Updates" Following the confirmation of a coronavirus disease (COVID-19) case in Lagos State by the Federal Ministry of Health, the Edo State Government has step-up measures to sensitise residents to check the spread of the virus. The Edo State Commissioner for Health, Dr. Patrick Okundia, addressing journalists at a Press Conference… February 28, 2020 In "Health"