Councils in Britain will be able to boost staffing levels in the social care sector as the government set aside an additional 120 million pounds (163 million dollars), to address absences due to the pandemic. The Department of Health and Social Care said the funding would increase workforce capacity at care homes and providers affected by staffing shortages. Health Minister Matt Hancock said the funding would boost staffing numbers in a controlled and safe way while ensuring people keep receiving a high level of care. “Since the start of the pandemic, we have taken steps to protect care homes, including increasing the testing available for staff and residents, providing free personal protective equipment, and investing billions of pounds of additional funding for infection control,” he said, according to PA news agency. He added that more than 40 per cent of elderly care home residents had received their first dose of the vaccine to prevent Covid-19, the disease caused by the coronavirus. Staff absences at care homes are reaching up to 50 per cent, according to a survey by the National Care Forum earlier this month. The government’s support to care homes and care, home staff, follows criticism last year that too little had been done to prevent the virus from spreading in care homes. Data released on Saturday showed a further 1,295 people died within 28 days of testing positive for Covid-19. There were 41,346 new cases in the past day. Scientists say the reproductive number – known as the R rate – is 1.2 to 1.3 in Britain. Vanguard News Nigeria UK on Sunday reported 170 more coronavirus deaths -- its lowest number since late March, when lockdown restrictions were introduced, although the figures from Northern Ireland were not included. Prime Minister Boris Johnson meanwhile acknowledged public frustration with the restrictions imposed to fight the virus. The coronavirus deaths take the… May 17, 2020 In "Foreign" Britain's Queen Elizabeth II will receive the Pfizer-BioNTech coronavirus vaccine within weeks, reports on Sunday said, as the biggest immunisation programme in UK history begins next week. The monarch, 94, and her 99-year-old husband Prince Philip are in line to get the jab early in the rollout, which gets underway… December 7, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" Britain on Thursday extended its nationwide lockdown for no less than another three weeks, as stand-in leader Dominic Raab ordered Britons to stay at home to prevent the spread of a coronavirus outbreak, which has already claimed over 138,000 lives globally. “Relaxing any of the measures currently in place would… April 17, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"