  The Lagos State Government has expressed worries over rising cases of civil servants testing positive for COVID-19 in the state. Determined to stem the dangerous trend, the Head of Service, Mr. Hakeem Muri-Okunola has issued a new directive to workers on safety protocols. Muri-Okunola, in an internal memo, addressed to Accounting Officers, decried the spate at which civil servants are testing positive to Covid-19, saying that the development calls for serious concern and caution. He, therefore, directed them to come up with a strategy to stem the outbreak in their respective Ministries, Department and Agencies, MDAs, to reduce the spread. The memo read in part: “I wish to note with deep concern the spate at which Officers are testing positive to COVID-19 and hereby enjoin all Accounting Officers to come up with Duty Rosters to stem the outbreak in your respective MDAs. “The roster should be prepared with an Officer having to report for duty at most twice a month. “Please note that this directive is without prejudice to existing directives and only reinforces same which are in effect and compliance abysmal.” Recall that Governor Babjide Sanwo-Olu had earlier directed officers from level 14 and below to work from home till January 18 which is subject to review.  Vanguard News Nigeria …Lagos schools not reopening now —Ministry …Vaccine cannot undo years of damage —UN Sec. Gen By Adesina Wahab, Perez Brisibe & Victor Aremu Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State has extended the stay-at- home order for public, servants on levels 14 and below to January 18, 2021 to stem the… January 4, 2021 In "News" *Orders reinforcement of 12 midnight to 4am curfew *Shuts down schools shut By Olasunkanmi Akoni Amid anxiety of second wave of COVID-19 pandemic and the rising cases of patients in recent times, Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, on Friday, expressed his concerns, saying the state could not afford to… December 18, 2020 In "News" By Rasheed Sobowale The Nigerian megacity, Lagos State in its bid to curb the coronavirus (COVID-19) has directed scavengers to immediately vacate all refuse dumpsites. This was made known in a statement signed by the Commissioner for the Environment and Water Resources, Mr. Tunji Bello, directed the Lagos Waste Management… March 23, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"