The Kano State Road and Traffic Agency (KAROTA), said it intercepted a Golf Car carrying cannabis worth over N30 million in Kano. The Public Relations Officer of the Agency, Mr Nabulisi Abdullahi, said this in a statement on Thursday in Kano. Abdullahi stated that the driver of the vehicle was arrested and that a total of 172 parcels of the exhibit worth N30 million was seized on Gwarzo-Kano road. “The operation took place around 3:30 a.m. on Jan.20, which led to the arrest of the driver on Gwarzo-Kano road while other suspects believed to be the owners of the consignment managed to escape,” He said. According to him, the agency has handed over the exhibits to the Kano Command of the National Drugs Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) for further investigation. Abdullahi quoted the Managing Director of the agency, Mr Baffa Dan’agundi, as calling on the general public to assist the agency with credible information on drug traffickers. He said such information would lead to the arrest of any person or group of persons who engaged in any form of crime in the state. The Public Relations Officer of the NDLEA, Mr Sani Danwawo, who confirmed the incident to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), said the agency had received the exhibit. Danwawo said the agency was waiting for the receipt of the vehicle and the driver for further investigation. He assured that the Kano command of the NDLEA would not relent in its efforts towards curtailing the high rate of drug abuse in the state. [NAN] Vanguard News Nigeria The Kano Road and Traffic Agency (KAROTA) has apprehended one Mr. Ekennah Okechuku for allegedly trafficking in hard drug in the state. The Public Relations Officer of the Agency, Alhaji Nabilusi Abubakar, made this known in a statement on Wednesday in Kano. Abubakar said the suspect was arrested with about… December 30, 2020 In "News" The National Drugs Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA), in Kano, says it had arrested one Mr. Ekennah Okechuku for allegedly being in possession of 130 kg of Cannabis sativa, otherwise known as Indian hemp. The NDLEA Commander in Kano, Dr. Ibrahim Abdu, told newsmen on Thursday, in Kano, that Ikechuku was… January 1, 2021 In "News" By Abdulmumin Murtala - Kano Kano Road and Traffic Agency,, has confiscated 28 cartons of illicit drugs worth N30 million. Karota, under the leadership of Baffa Babba Dan’agundi, raided a store along Airport Road by Murtala Muhammad Way where the drugs were kept after being brought into the state without… January 31, 2020 In "Health"