US President-elect Joe Biden should immediately revoke deals the Trump administration struck with Central American countries on the handling of asylum seekers, a report published Monday by Democratic senators said. In 2019, the US signed Asylum Cooperation Agreements (ACAs) with the members of the so-called  Northern Triangle of Central America — El Salvador, Honduras and Guatemala — as part of its policy to stem the flow of undocumented immigrants across its southern border. The ACAs allow foreign migrants who request asylum at the US border — the majority fleeing violence and poverty — to be sent to await the outcome of their application in those Central American nations. “The Trump administration views the ACAs as a model to be replicated with other countries around the world,” said the document written by the Democratic staff of the Foreign Relations Committee and commissioned by incoming Committee Chairman Bob Menendez. “This is precisely the opposite of what needs to happen.” Biden, who will be inaugurated on Wednesday, has promised “a fair and humane immigration system” and has pledged aid to tackle the root causes of poverty and violence that drive Central Americans to the US. The report said that since the implementation of the first ACA more than a year ago, none of the 945 asylum seekers transferred from the US to Guatemala have managed to receive asylum. It cited “degrading” treatment of asylum seekers transferred from the US to Guatemala under the agreement, and said they were “effectively coerced to return to their home countries of Honduras or El Salvador, where many feared persecution and harm.” The report urged the rapid suspension of the pacts, to “restore our leadership in upholding the right to seek asylum and in protecting refugees.” “Congress and the Administration must renew our commitment to the protection of refugees and asylum seekers in the post-Trump era,” said Menendez, who called the ACAs “disastrous” and “shameful”. The report also accused the White House and Trump’s Department of Homeland Security (DHS) of using “coercive tactics” to force the governments of Guatemala, Honduras and El Salvador to sign the agreements. The Trump administration resumed suspended financial assistance for the Northern Triangle countries after sealing the pacts. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria …Ex-President Bush, world leaders congratulate President-elect …Republican lawmakers support Trump's legal war A day after clinching the U.S. presidency, Democrat Joe Biden and his advisers have started work on how to address the nation’s coronavirus crisis while reinforcing his intention to bridge America’s gaping political divisions. The president-elect at weekend… November 9, 2020 In "Foreign" The United States and El Salvador on Friday agreed to attempt to reduce the flow of migrants arriving at the US-Mexico border by strengthening El Salvador’s capacity to provide for asylum seekers but did not detail any concrete actions. “The core of this is recognizing El Salvador’s development of their… September 21, 2019 In "Foreign" The United States Supreme Court on Wednesday granted a request by President Donald Trump's administration to fully enforce a new rule that would curtail asylum applications by immigrants at the US-Mexico border, a key element of his hard-line immigration policies. In a report by Aljazeera, the court said the rule,… September 12, 2019 In "Foreign"