SENATOR Rochas Okorocha on Monday called for a new political alliance between good leaders of like minds in ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and lead opposition, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), declaring there are bad people in both parties. The former Imo state governor and Senator representing Imo West District was guest to Governor Nyesom Wike in Rivers state where he commissioned the Rumuche/Rumuakunde/Ohna Awuse Link Road in Emohua Local Government Area, completed by the Wike administration. He stated on the occasion, “In this dispensation, there are many bad people in APC, many bad people in PDP. The good people of APC and good people of PDP must come together for purpose of making Nigeria great. “I could imagine where I join forces with Wike. Governor Wike, this is my hand of friendship. Let us bring all like minds, all great people of Nigeria. Rather than complaining, let us come together to make this country greater and greater as it should be. “What brought me here today is not party, but love and friendship. I am not PDP, I am APC, but the time has come when we must break the jinx of party division and embrace brotherhood and friendship and be able to state what is good and what is bad. A bad man is a bad man whether he is PDP or APC” Senator Okorocha said Governor Wike is a courageous leader who has spoken truth to power and continued to improve the lot of Rivers people with his projects delivery mantra. In his remarks, Governor Wike counselled members of Rivers APC to shun politics of bitterness that often make frustrate development projects attracted by others to their communities. The governor challenged Senator Andrew Uchendu of the APC to show what he has achieved for his community during his time in both the House of Representatives and Senate, announcing the immediate award of contract for the reconstruction of the Mgbuitawo Road in Uchendu’s community as proof that he is a liberal politician. He said, “I am different, so, I will do the Mgbuitawo Road immediately because I am not a vindictive politician. If I am vindictive, that road will not be done. Also, I want to tell him (Uchendu), no need to play politics with bitterness. Wike clarified that bringing Sen Okorocha of the APC to inaugurate the road project does not mean he is fraternising with the opposition, but because they had been friends since his days as council chairman. He stated, “I don’t believe you must have friends only in your own party. You must have to build relationship across boards but that doesn’t not mean that you’ll sell your party. “Okorocha has been my friend since I was Deputy National President of ALGON down to when I became the President of ALGON. “He was member of the PDP. He left us and said they were going to make Nigeria great. He is still there, I believe that in these two years that they have left, they’ll make us to be that great. But as at today, we are not great.” Vanguard News Nigeria Too many people have died because of this terrible quarrel between Amaechi and Wike; and many are now saying that Rivers State will only enjoy peace if both of them are removed from the system March 15, 2019 In "Sweet and Sour" AS the Presidential and National Assembly elections kick-off today in yet another march in the country’s political process, there are top opinion molders, who often times   influence the choice people make in their various states and regions.   In the South-South, our reporters appraised the personalities that sway public opinion… February 16, 2019 In "News" By Obi Nwakanma Mr. David Umahi, governor of Ebonyi State, has finally decamped from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to the All Progressives Congress (APC). This move did not cause the kind of political earthquake that he must have been expected, primarily because, one, the news cycle these days is… November 29, 2020 In "The Orbit"