It has emerged that U.S Capitol Police rejected National Guard and FBI offers of backup in the days and hours leading up to Wednesday’s attack on Congress. MailOnline said three days before supporters of President Donald Trump stormed the Capitol, the Pentagon asked the U.S Capitol Police if it needed National Guard manpower. But the offer was declined, according to three sources familiar with the matter. The second time was when the mob descended on the building on Wednesday; Capitol Police rejected an offer of FBI support from Justice Department leaders. It was revealed that they had prepared for a free speech demonstration, and did not anticipate the violent nature the crowd morphed into. Also, Capitol Police officials wanted to avoid any appearance that the federal government was deploying troops against Americans. Recall that there was an uproar over the response by law enforcement to protests last June near the White House, when Trump ordered police — reinforced by Guardsmen— to clear a path for a photo op by a church. Since Wednesday’s riot, condemnations have President Donald Trump’s stance since the Presidential election last year. Vanguard News Nigeria Outgoing United States President Donald Trump said he was “outraged by the violence, lawlessness and mayhem” after a group of his supporters stormed the Capitol and forced a halt to a Congressional joint sitting. Trump said demonstrators “defiled the seat of democracy” and added “to those who broke the law,… January 8, 2021 In "Foreign" Outgoing U.S President Donald Trump said he was “outraged by the violence, lawlessness and mayhem” after a group of his supporters stormed the Capitol and forced a halt to a Congressional joint sitting. Trump said demonstrators “defiled the seat of democracy” and added “to those who broke the law, you will… January 8, 2021 In "News" …Facebook, Instagram block Trump’s accounts indefinitely …More top advisers resign …Over 65 attackers arrested A growing number of lawmakers  — including from Democratic leadership — are calling for President Donald Trump to be removed from office either through impeachment or  the 25th Amendment  to the Constitution after a violent mob… January 8, 2021 In "News"