Three mobile policemen were reportedly killed, Sunday night, by gunmen in Ughelli, Delta State, thereby worsening the security situation in the town and its environs. The attack on the police team made up of two inspectors and a sergeant happened on the same day a couple was attacked at the Ekuigbo axis of Ughelli, killing the lady in the process in what witnesses described as a failed kidnap attempt. Giving details of the attack on the police personnel, a staff of the fast-food spot where the incident occurred, said two of the gunmen walked up to where the policemen were sitting and shot them. The source, who spoke on condition of anonymity, gave the names of the slain policemen as Inspector Simeon Madaki, Inspector Muktari Lawan and Sergeant Adamu Ibrahim, all from PMF 47, Zaria in Kaduna State. According to the source, the police operatives were attached as police guards to the fast-food before the unfortunate incident. Efforts to speak with the state Police Public Relations Officer, Onome Onowakpoyeya, were fruitless, but a senior police officer at the Ughelli Police Area Command confirmed the incident and the identity of the slain policemen. The source said the gunmen also went away with 120 rounds of live ammunition and the three AK-47 rifles belonging to the slain policemen. According to the source, “The fourth mobile policeman, who is an inspector, had taken cover during the incident, which lasted  about five minutes. “We also recovered 26 expended ammunition of 2.62 calibres at the scene of the incident which we suspect were shot by the hoodlums.” Vanguard News Nigeria UGHELLI – A police sergeant attached to the Ughelli Area Command have been confirmed dead while others sustained various degrees of gunshot wounds when a gang of unidentified gunmen ambushed a Dragon Patrol team at a police check point in Ughelli, headquarters of Ughelli North Local Government Area of Delta… November 25, 2018 In "News" By Perez Brisibe UGHELLI - Unidentified gunmen in the early hours of Thursday, attacked a team of policemen in Delta State attached to the Inspector General of Police, IGP Special Taskforce on Petroleum and Illegal Bunkering killing one of the policemen in the team. The incident according to security sources,… August 13, 2020 In "News" IT is not strange at many police formations across the country these days to see policemen rebuff posting to what they consider as “dangerous beats”. In fact, you can count the number of policemen that want to be drafted to chase armed robbers. October 28, 2018 In "Crime Alert"