The ruling party, All Progressive Congress, APC have won all the 44 Local government Chairmen seats in Kano State. The party also clears all the councillorship seats across the 484 wards of the state. The Chairman, State Independent Electoral Commission, KANSIEC, Prof. Garba Sheka disclosed this while declaring results of the last Saturday LG election in the state. Prof. Sheka said “the 2,350,577 votes were total votes cast for the APC during the election. He said despite minor challenges encountered during the election process, the commission was able to conduct the election successfully. Prof. Sheka commended the state Government for non-interference in the election activities from beginning to end just as he applauded the efforts of all security agencies, Civil Society Organizations and the general public for the hitch-free conduct of the election. Recall that 12 political parties participated in the election. Meanwhile, in a related development, the Kano Civil Society Situation Room has adjudged the Saturday election as peaceful. An interim report signed by the Lead Convener, Comrade Ibrahim Waiya also said the election recorded low turnout. According to him, “The Situation Room observed that the conduct of the elections was relatively peaceful, as there was security presence in every polling unit. “It was observed that there was a low turnout of voters in most of the polling units, especially among women and persons with disability. “We acknowledged the important role played by Police, together with other security agencies, in securing polling units and curtailing few disturbances especially in the part of Sabon Gari Southward of Fagge LGA. “Shortage of ballot papers in some polling units was reported, but quickly addressed by KANSIEC. “COVID-19 Social Distance and other prevention protocols were not adhered to in most of the polling units. “There were reports of underage presence in two polling units, but were quickly addressed through the intervention of the situation room,” Waiya however stated. Vanguard News Nigeria The All Progressive Congress (APC) candidates have cleared the 44 councils seats in Saturday’s Kano State Local Government polls. February 11, 2018 In "News" By Bashir Bello - Kano Kano State Independent Electoral Commission, KANSIEC, has on Monday fixed January 16th, 2021 for the conduct of the local government area election in the state. The Commission's Chairman, Professor Garba Ibrahim Sheka disclosed this while briefing newsmen on the time table for the conduct of… October 12, 2020 In "Politics" IT was a landslide victory for the ruling All Progressive Congress weekend in Kano as it   posted overwhelming victory over all comers during the local government election. February 12, 2018 In "News"