 The government of India has commended exemplary Indians and its institutions in Diaspora that have helped strengthen multilateral relations with other nations across the world.  Speaking in a celebration of Non-Resident Indians Day, known as the ‘Pravasi Bharatiya Divas’, hosted annually by Indian government, President of India, Mr. Ramnath Kovind, commended Indians and its institutions in diaspora as true ambassadors of peace which Mahatma Gandhi represented. According to Kovind, “The January 9 is a significant day in our nation because is the day Mahatma Gandhi, father of the nation, returned to India from South Africa, that is why we chose to have the Pravasi Bhartiya Divas celebration on this day.” Among institutions awarded is the Indian Cultural Association, ICA, in Nigeria for its outstanding community development contribution in Lagos, Nigeria as “PRAVASI BHARTIYA SAMMAN AWARD”.  Fielding questions from newsmen on the awards, President of ICA, Chief Sanjay Jain said: “This is the first time we ever had a national recognition to an Indian association in Nigeria. For us it’s a moment of great pride as well as an historic moment for ICA and the entire Indian community in Nigeria. It gives me immense pleasure on the addition of this newest feather to ICA’s cap of service and commitment to our host community.”  Among dignitaries present at the event were the President of India, Mr. Ramnath Kovind, Prime Minister of India, Mr. Narendra Modi and External Affairs Minister, Mr.  S. Jayshankar amongst several others.  Mrs Abike Dabiri-Erewa, the Chairman/CEO, Nigerians in the Diaspora Commission (NIDCOM) has said that stronger partnership between intelligent Nigerians and Indians in Diaspora is capable of transforming the world. Dabiri-Erewa made this known in Abuja during the commemoration of the 2020 Pravasi Bharatiya Divas (Indians in Diaspora day) and World… January 10, 2020 In "News" Nigeria and India are set to sign Bilateral Air Services Agreement (BASA) before the end of January that would enable direct flights between the two countries, the Indian High Commissioner to Nigeria, Mr Abhay Thakur has said. January 10, 2019 In "News" Professor Dickson Enuma Ozokwelu a world renowned expert in Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy is a fellow of American Institute of Chemical Engineers, AIChE and Nigerian Society for Chemical Engineers, NSChE, a licensed professional engineer in the State of Tennessee, USA, has a PhD in Chemical Engineering and an MBA… December 15, 2016 In "Interview"