Armed bandits invaded Kawaran Rafi village in Igabi local government area of Kaduna state and killed one Danleeman Isah, the Chief Imam of the village. The Sarkin Yaki of Godogodo, Mr Yohanna Abu, was also killed by gunmen. Samuel Aruwan, Commissioner, Ministry of Internal Security and Home Affairs, Kaduna State, in a statement, explained that the  bandits moved straight to Isah’s residence, and in what appeared to be a pre-meditated murder, shot him dead and left the location without taking any item or hostages. The murder of the Imam has been linked to his vocal stance against the killing and kidnapping of citizenry by bandits. It is of a similar ilk to the killing of Ardo Musa Layi of Kajuru local government, who was kidnapped and killed by armed bandits in October 2020 for his advocacy against killing, kidnapping and cattle rustling. Also was the shooting of Ardo Ahmadu Suleiman by bandits at Kasuwan Magani, Kajuru local government, leaving him with bullet wounds. In another development, security agencies have reported the murder of the Sarkin Yaki of Godogodo, Mr Yohanna Abu, by a gang of kidnappers. According to the report, the gunmen attacked Nisama village in Jema’a local government area late on Friday night, and abducted Mr Abu along with another resident, Mr Charles Audu. A struggle ensued between the duo and the kidnappers, and while Mr Audu was able to escape, the kidnappers shot Mr Abu dead. Five persons have been arrested in connection with the killing, as security agencies continued to investigate the incident. Governor Nasir El-Rufai have expressed sadness over the development, praying for the repose of the souls of the slain cleric and community leader, as he conveyed his heartfelt condolences to their families. Vanguard News Nigeria By Ibrahim HassanWuyo Disagreement amongst bandits over large herds of rustled cows has led the killing of a notorious terrorist, Nasiru Kachalla and his colleagues. Security agencies have confirmed to the Kaduna State Government the killing of Nasiru Kachalla. Samuel Aruwan, Commissioner, Internal Security and Home Affairs, Kaduna State, said… December 28, 2020 In "News" Bandits attacked Kasuwan Magani town in Kajuru Local Government Area of Kaduna State, and shot the leader of Fulani Ardos in the state. December 5, 2020 In "News" FOUR weeks to the end of 2018, many Nigerians would be eager to bid the year goodbye and welcome 2019 with open arms. December 2, 2018 In "Headlines"