Ado Ekiti- A legal Luminary and founder of Afe Babalola University, Ado Ekiti(ABUAD), Aare Afe Babalola (SAN), has described as unconstitutional, the mass closure of Nigerian universities by the federal government owing to the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic. Babalola who spoke in Ado Ekiti at a press conference about the attempt by the federal government to defer the resumption of universities earlier slated for January 18, said such action would turn out to be counterproductive and disastrous to the education sector, especially closing down of private schools without prior consultation. Expressing opposition to mass closure of universities, the Legal Icon said: “I am of the firm view that mass closure of schools is unconstitutional, disastrous and counter-productive. “It is certainly unjust to the parents, teachers, students and Proprietors of schools and also violates the rule of natural justice”, he stated . Babalola disclosed that the United States Centre for Disease Control and Prevention had outlined all these into consideration when it officially recommended that universities should be accorded preferential treatment under Covid 19 in terms of operations. “The USCDC said universities are different in terms of size, geographical location, structure and in their abilities to take measures that will guarantee minimum risk to students and teachers in their schools, which in turn will ensure undisrupted on-campus learning for students. “On the contrary, universities which do not possess these facilities are within high-risk category. “I hereby strongly advise that the federal government should stop mass closure of schools. All schools, particularly the private universities that have the required world class health facilities and have complied with Presidential Task Force regulations which will enable them to implement low medium risk measures ought not and should not be shut down. He insisted that his eleven years old university had been having a smooth and uninterrupted academic calendar before abrupt disruption by Covid 19, thereby stalling operations and  of the university in spite of the world-class facilities it parades to prevent the spread of the lethal disease. The legal luminary added : “The FG should know that schools in Ekiti are safer than that located in the heart of Lagos. We must consider the geographical location. Any worker here who goes to Lagos, Abuja and Port Harcourt goes for special test and seven days isolation. This underscored the level.of our preparedness”. He urged the federal government to emulate foreign countries by paying the salaries of lecturers in the private universities, which were shut down because of Covid 19. Babalola reminded the FG that should the low-risk private Universities remain shut down to wait for high risk one will make the ivory towers remain in  comatose for long. On whether he will approach the court to challenge the closure of private universities, Babalola said: “I am not going to court, because we have not exhausted the option of negotiation and local remedy. I am a friend of the FG and I know that the Attorney General of the Federation (AGF) will look into it”. On how his university has been affected adversely, Babalola explain that; “We can’t even quantify our losses. We  have been following international standard, which was September to July academic session before this global problem. “We have done seven convocations in ten years. We used to pay salaries on the 24th of the months and nobody has been sacked despite this suspension of work. But this has affected our purse. How can we be paying for services not rendered? This is unfair.  Founder of Afe Babalola University, Ado-Ekiti, ABUAD, Aare Afe Babalola, has appealed to the Federal Government to allow private universities benefit from Tertiary Education Trust Fund, TETFUND. October 16, 2015 In "News" Ado-Ekiti—Aare Afe Babalola (SAN), Founder of Afe Babalola University, Ado-Ekiti, has offered to start buying off farm produce from farmers across the state, in order to save them the agony of produce wastage and huge losses owing to lack of storage facilities. October 9, 2017 In "News" Arole Oodua & Ooni of Ife, Ooni Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi (Ojaja II) is partnering with ABUAD-Afe Babalola University, Ado Ekiti on clinical research aimed at developing drugs and vaccines for viral infections with special focus on Coronavirus pandemic. Ooni Ogunwusi made this known at his Ile-Oodua palace on Monday while… May 13, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"