Egypt has flagged off its COVID-19 immunisation programme making it one of the first countries in Africa to vaccinate its citizens, with a doctor and a nurse receiving the Chinese-made Sinopharm jab. Egypt, with over 100 million people, received its first batch of the vaccine in December. The inoculation will be available to all health workers for free. People with chronic diseases and the elderly will be next in line for the jab, but citizens who have the means should pay for the vaccine in the coming months. Egypt has registered over 160,000 novel coronavirus infections, including nearly 9,000 deaths. Health officials have warned that low testing rates mean the real number could be at least 10 times higher. Cairo has deals to receive vaccine shipments from British, Chinese, and Russian firms, for a total of around 100 million doses, mostly of the AstraZeneca/Oxford jab, via the Gavi vaccine alliance, with the aim of inoculating 20 percent of its population. Egypt is planning on producing a vaccine locally, with a view to distributing it to the rest of the continent, without providing details on which vaccine. Vanguard News Nigeria Egypt has approved the use of a Covid-19 vaccine developed by Chinese pharma giant Sinopharm with its rollout to start later in January, the health minister said. "The Egyptian pharmaceutical authority approved on Saturday the Chinese Sinopharm vaccine," Hala Zayed said late Saturday, on the local MBC Masr channel. The… January 3, 2021 In "Coronavirus Updates" Kenya is now looking to the east for a potential Covid-19 vaccine, according to President Uhuru Kenyatta. The president gave the ministry of health the go-ahead to shop for vaccines from China. The country's decision comes in the wake of rich countries in the west buying nearly 3.8 billion doses… December 1, 2020 In "Foreign" Around 50 countries around the world have already started vaccinating their people against Covid-19, barely a year after the first alert by China signalled the start of the epidemic. A snapshot: - China leads the way - China, where the pandemic first emerged, was also the first to start vaccinations… December 31, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"