Kwara state government has said that the delay in reaching an agreeable minimum wage with the labour leaders was to avoid falling into the unfortunate ditch some states have fallen into over the payments of the minimum wage. Chairman of the Kwara State Minimum Wage Negotiating Committee and State Head of Service, Mrs Susan Modupe Oluwole said this in a statement she issued in Ilorin Friday evening. She said, “I also wish to add that the State Government is working on what will be an acceptable living wage for its workforce that is also sustainable in order not to fall into the unfortunate ditch some States currently find themselves in the payment of the new wage. “The Government also submitted a working table to the Unions for their perusal and affirmation, they are currently deliberating on it. “It is for this reason, we are patiently awaiting the outcome of the first meeting of the Federal Account and Allocation Committee (FAAC), to have a clearer idea of what obtains in the 2021 Budget.” The also statement reads, “I wish to inform the general public that the State Government is striving hard at reaching an acceptable agreement with the leadership of the Labour Unions on the implementation of the new minimum wage for the State Civil Servants. “I must say with all emphasis, that there were a series of meetings between Government and the representatives of the Labour Unions since the commencement of the operation of the New Minimum Wage Committee. ” I hereby applaud the leadership of the State Labour movement for the maturity displayed so far. Again, I appreciate the patience and understanding of the Labour Leaders and their members” Vanguard News Nigeria The Joint Kwara Labour Congress, on Tuesday in Ilorin, staged a peaceful protest on the delay by the Federal Government to implement the N30,000 minimum wage demanded by the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC). October 30, 2018 In "News" President Muhammadu Buhari has called on Nigerians not to re-elect governors who failed in their first terms, especially those who cannot pay civil servants salaries even after collecting bailouts from the federal government. January 9, 2019 In "News" Despite last Saturday’s acceptance by Governors of the 36 states that they will pay the new minimum wage, labour insisted yesterday that it is proceeding with the three-day warning strike scheduled to begin on Wednesday as it gives further conditions to call off the strike. July 18, 2011 In "Headlines"