Pastor Faith Edeko of the Omega Fire Ministries has debunked the allegations of alleged infidelity, threat to life and obstruction of access to children, levelled against the Senior Pastor and General Overseer, Omega Fire Ministries International, Apostle Johnson Suleman, by her ex husband, Pastor Mike Davids. Pastor Faith, in a chat with Vanguard Monday, described the allegations as pure falsehood and cheap blackmail to tarnish the image of the Apostle. While denying the accusations, pastor Faith said she had never slept nor would she ever contemplate sleeping with Apostle Suleman whom she said was like her biological father. According to her, “I’ve never had anything to do with Apostle Suleman, it’s like sleeping with my biological father. It’s like someone telling me that I am sleeping with my own biological father.” Meanwhile, in his reaction to the accusations, Apostle Johnson Suleman, in a chat with Vanguard Monday, also debunked the allegations and wondered why the pastor could fabricate “such wicked lies and falsehood” just to tarnish his image. Apostle Suleman, in the chat, said “Let it be heard and Apostle Sam Okpe( Pastor of Fresh Oil Ministry, Lagos), when you reached me to reconcile and help them, my reply was “the lady is an adult, let her speak for herself. I have no comments. But if I raised a daughter and you throw her out, i will take her in. That’s what a father does. If you have now come to your senses, make peace with your wife.” On the report of a probe launched against him by  the police, Apostle Suleman said, “There is no police probe..I am not aware and not served. I only read it on papers like everyone else.” Similarly, in her statement, pastor Faith said, accusing her of sleeping with the General Overseer, a man who adopted and trained her since her own father passed away when she was very young, is like saying she is sleeping with her own biological father. She said the only truth her ex husband said in his video clips accusing the Apostle was that where he admitted he married her a virgin. She therefore asked how she could have turned around and begun to sleep with the man she sees as her biological father, saying if she did not do that when she was still a virgin and under his roof, how could she do it when she got married? She said her husband has always told her that she was not up to his standard. She accused her husband of trying severally to elope with other women abroad but to no avail. According to her, pastor Davids had sent his people to hers, collected the dowry he paid on her and officially dissolved the marriage. She said her ex husband had been planning to dissolve the marriage for a long time when he refused till date to send a copy of their marriage certificate to the Local Government for documentation. She said he had collected both the original and photocopies of their marriage certificates on the guise of applying for visa abroad only to come and tell her that he lost them. Describing the allegations as purely false, wicked and cheap blackmail, the pastor said the issue of her marriage with pastor Davids crashing has nothing to do with Apostle Suleman. According to her, “I grew up in Apostle Suleman’s house. In my video on Facebook, I told Mike that thank  God you said you met me a virgin. Thank God you told the whole world you met me a virgin. “I grew up in papa’s(Apostle Suleman’s) house. He trained me, he brought me up. My mum knows him. My family and everybody know him. My father died when I was young and he adopted me as his own daughter. So, if you married me a virgin and I remained with him a virgin after 20 years plus, I don’t get it. “I have never had anything to do with Papa, not for one day. Which Papa!? Papa that if you send a message and end it in any way not proper, he will call you and ask you what is the meaning of the last part.” “Mike did not introduce me to Apostle Johnson Suleman, I introduced Mike to him as the man that wants to marry me. And the question Papa asked me was, ‘is this the man?’ and I said yes. So, I don’t know what Mike is talking about because I married him a virgin, just like he confirmed in his video. That is the only truth he said in all his videos. “I’ve never had anything to do with Apostle Suleman, it’s like sleeping with my biological father. It’s like someone telling me that I am sleeping with my own biological father. In fact, Papa did not even know when this marriage crashed. That this marriage stayed up to 10 years was because of Papa. Everytime I tell him I am tired of this marriage, he would tell me, ‘go back,’ that where do I think I am going to. “When Mike met me, I was working in NTA and I later left the job. And Mike would always tell me that I’m not up to his standard. Mike has always wanted to elope with some women abroad. But I covered him because he is my husband. Go to Kano church and they will tell you that there is nothing that Mike is not guilty of, but I will come out and tell them that my husband did not do that. I have recordings. “But what I don’t understand is what brought Apostle Suleman into this issue. Why drag an innocent man into this issue? You walked out of the marriage, you said I am not up to your standards, you want to go and make money abroad. You left me in Kano and my family put my pieces together. It was people like Apostle Tenebe and Apostle Sam Okpe who begged Mike to go back. Tenebe begged Mike to go back but he refused that he wants to move on, that this is not the level of success he prayed for himself. “Our marriage crashing has nothing to do with Papa. She said, contrary to claims, that Pastor Davids did not resign but was driven out of the ministry because of his ring doings. That was what led me to go begging. It took me close to a year to get access to papa. It was when I heard that Apostle Sam Okpe was close to papa that I went to him to help me beg papa. And he did it. He took me by the hand to papa and begged him. The next week, he took Mike to papa and begged him and Papa said he had forgiven him and we all moved on fine. Only for him to wake up one day and said he was leaving the marriage. No day passes that I don’t beg him, kneeling down as if he is a God and he would tell me that ‘i will leave you, you should be proud that I married you.” “When he was leaving, I begged him to let the children stay with me. “I don’t know where Mike stays but I heard that he is in Abuja. Mike said that I have a church in Utako. He knows the place. He said he is looking for me and the place to look is online? You forgot the roads to my village and family? “Does Apostle Johnson Suleman know when you sent your people to collect back your bride price? Bride price he collected arownd June or July? Was Apostle Suleman in the picture when he collected the bride price? They went to my uncle’s house and he told them it’s not done that way but they said noo, he wants to move on. So, are we still married? “Let me shock you. He never submitted a copy of our wedding certificates to the Local Government for documentation.” She said pastor Davids collected both the photocopy and the original marriage certificates from her on the guise that he was applying for visa to go abroad only to come back and tell her he lost them both. She said he even made efforts to retrieve the only copy with the church but was denied. On whether her marriage with pastor Davids was still functional, pastor Faith said her union with pastor Mike Davids had been dissolved and that there were witnesses from both families. “They brought their elders and witnesses, my elders were there and my mum was there and the marriage was dissolved,” she declared with a note of finality. Also, corroborating pastor Faith’s statement vindicating Suleman, Apostle Sam Okpe, in a series of video clips, exonerated the General Overseer from the allegations, describing pastor Davids’ claims as pure falsehood. According to Apostle Okpe, he was the one who introduced Pastor Faith to Suleiman. He said he was equally the one who took pastor Davids to Apostle Suleman to reconcile them after the Davids were suspended because of their marital squabbles unbefitting of pastors who should serve as examples to the lay faithful. He said both Pastors Davids and Faith reached out to him for help in seeking audience with Apostle Seleman. He also said that, although Apostle Suleman had refused and would not want to have anything to do with the Davids, he however agreed to mediate in the matter because, according to Apostle Okpe, other pastors were demanding one million naira from pastor Faith in other to reconcile her with her husband. According to him, “Let the whole world know that Apostle Suleman is innocent of the allegations from Mike Davids and his family. Mike, you and I know that we have a long WhatsApp conversation. The evidence is there.” “Pastor Faith, how could you forget that I was the one who took you by the hand and drove you, and introduced you to Apostle Suleiman on the 13th of May, 2019 in Lagos in the company of pastor Joe Asukwo from Lafia? I have the enlargements of the pictures in my office. I took the photographs. All that photographs that Mike cropped to blackmail Apostle Suleiman. I took them with my phone. I will upload them.” He said Apostle Suleman had supported Mike and his family with finances at several intervals, two of which were 2000k dollars and 1000k dollars he gave to pastor Faith and Mike Davids, respectively. “Pastor Faith knows where Mike is living. They live in the same estate opposite each other. We sometimes make jokes with her that one day both of them will meet themselves in a shopping mall and we would laugh. ” I feel that is so cruel for anyone who holds the bible to do. Mike, you know that Sam Okpe (referring to himself) is still alive. You know the role I played in this your issue with Apostle Suleiman.” “Let the whole world listen to the voice of truth. I am not in support of pastor Faith neither am I supporting pastor Davids. I am only here to clear Apostle Suleiman. “Mike(Davids) sent me an audio message which I have the recordings. Did you forget that you called me on phone and said you have left the house? You left for Abuja. I begged you to go back home but you said you are done with the marriage and that you don’t want anything to do with your wife and marriage again? You forgot I have the recordings?” Meanwhile, Apostle Seleman’s reaction is coming on the heels of alleged report of a probe into the matter by the Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu. The IGP, in the said report, had conveyed the order in a letter addressed to the Deputy Inspector-General of Police, Force Intelligence Bureau, Garki, dated January 5, 2021 which was in response to a petition by V.C Ezenagu & Associates on behalf of Pastor Davids. Apostle Suleman, through his lawyer, Chief Akpofure, SAN, is however, suing pastor Mike Davids for 500 million naira for damages to his image through li s and blackmail. Vanguard News Nigeria Recall that last year, Apostle Johnson Suleman of the Omega Fire Ministries Worldwide was the subject of a sex scandal that went viral on social media. But in a shocking turnaround, last Saturday, his accuser, 23 yr-old Miss Stephanie Otobo appeared on the altar of Omega Fire Ministries in Auchi… February 4, 2018 In "Entertainment" The media adviser of Apostle Johnson Suleman, the General Overseer of Omega Fire Ministries, Mr. Phrank Shaibu, has said that Apostle Suleman is known world wide for his philanthropic nature and does not know why Stephanie Otobo would lay false allegations against the man of God, thus challenges her to… April 24, 2017 In "News" I am sure you have all heard about the accusations against a man of God, Apostle Suleman, by a Canada based stripper who says she feels shortchanged because Pastor Suleman reneged on his promise to marry her. March 18, 2017 In "News"