A lecturer from the Department of Community Medicine, Ahmadu Bello University (ABU) Zaria, Professor Clara Ejembi, on Thursday said the coronavirus (COVID-19) vaccination does not prevent infection. Speaking during a webinar organized by an NGO, the Sir Ahmadu Bello Memorial Foundation (SABMF), Professor Ejembi noted that the need for people to continue to practice preventive measures is important and all actors must be on board. This was as Northern States Governor’s Forum (NSGF) said its members have agreed to take the first dose of the COVID-19 vaccine when it arrives in Nigeria. The Chairman NSGF, Governor of Plateau State, Honorable Simon Lalong during the webinar gave the assurance on behalf of his colleagues. The safety and efficacy of the Covid-19 vaccine were also discussed. Represented by the Secretary to the Plateau State Government (SSG), Professor Danladi Atu, Lalong said: “we the Northern Governors have agreed to take the first doses of the vaccines”. The managing director and chief executive officer of the SBMF, Engr. Abubakar Gambo Umar said the webinar, among others, was basically to sensitize the general public and provide answers to all the issues surrounding the COVID 19 pandemic, and its vaccines. A team of medical experts also gave their opinions about the COVID-19 vaccines, its efficacy and safety. Dr Faisal Shu’aibu Executive Director National Primary Health Care Development Agency (NPHCDA), said that the projection is that 70 per cent of Nigerians will be vaccinated over the period of two years, adding that the first phase is that 40 per cent of the population will be vaccinated while in the second phase, 39 per cent of the population is expected to be vaccinated. He said in doing so the risk communication strategies will be implemented across the different phases of the covid 19 vaccine introduction. A pioneer epidemiologist, Prof. Abdulsalam Nasidii also spoke on the efficacy of the vaccines. Dr Nasiru Sani Gwarzo, an epidemiologist and Permanent Secretary Federal Ministry of Industry Trade and Investments; Prof Zubairu Iliyasu, Director of Centre for Infectious Diseases Bayero University Kano; Prof Sarki Abba, Director Center for Urologic Oncology, Northwestern University Chicago USA; and Dr Muhammed Adis, Executive Secretary of Nasarawa State Primary Health Care Development Agency (NSPHCDA); among others, were also part of the occasion. Vanguard News Nigeria ***as experts assure of vaccine safety By Ibrahim HassanWuyo The Northern States Governor's Forum (NSGF) on Thursday, said its members have agreed to take the first doses of the COVID-19 vaccine when it arrives Nigeria. The Chairman NSGF, Governor of Plateau State, Honorable Simon Lalong in a webinar organized by… January 28, 2021 In "Coronavirus Updates" The Executive Director, National Primarily Health Care Development Agency (NPHCDA), Dr. Faisal Shuaibu, has said that the Federal Government was targeting vaccinating 70 percent of Nigerians against Covid-19. Shuaibu, who disclosed this during a webinar hosted by the Sir Ahmadu Bello Memorial Foundation, on the safety and efficacy of the… January 28, 2021 In "News" …8pm-6am curfew in Ekiti,  public gathering more than 20 banned …Buhari should wear face-mask in public as role model — TOMORI …Obaseki urges banks to intensify efforts to curb Covid-19 second wave …How vaccines’ll be administered — NPHCDA …Frontline workers, adults, uniformed personnel, high burden states top priority list …84,655,749… January 11, 2021 In "Coronavirus Updates"