Two officers were injured while breaking up an illegal party with 200 guests in London, British police said on Saturday. Party-goers attacked the officers while trying to escape the scene of the gathering held last weekend in defiance of Britain’s anti-coronavirus restrictions, a statement said. More than 30 guests were fined 200 pounds each (274 dollars) after attending the gathering. Police sealed off the venue for three months. The owner has already been fined 1,000 pounds for a previous lockdown violation. The incident was not an isolated one. Last weekend saw London police shut down another illegal party with 30 guests, the force said in the same statement. The owner of the building faces a 10,000-pound fine. England is currently under a strict lockdown. Meetings with members of other households are widely banned, with few exceptions. British Home Secretary Priti Patel recently announced plans to quadruple the penalties for a first offence to 800 pounds. Britain is among the European countries hardest hit by the pandemic. Vanguard News Nigeria Aston Villa captain Jack Grealish posted a public apology on Monday for breaking UK government guidelines on social distancing as police opened an investigation into an incident in which a Range Rover crashed into parked cars. Villa expressed their disappointment with Grealish and said the 24-year-old will be fined with… March 30, 2020 In "Sports" Chelsea and England winger Callum Hudson-Odoi was arrested at the weekend after police responded to a report of an "unwell woman", British media reported on Monday. Police officers and an ambulance attended Hudson-Odoi's London home in the early hours of Sunday. The 19-year-old was arrested and taken into custody before… May 18, 2020 In "Sports" Five people suspected of organising illegal parties during the coronavirus pandemic have been arrested by police in Paris, authorities said on Sunday. The suspects are accused of putting others in danger, according to a statement. Officers cleared gatherings in a number of districts in the French capital over the weekend,… December 27, 2020 In "News"