Supreme leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, Nnamdi Kanu, on Saturday warned the Commissioner of Police in Oyo State, Mrs Ngozi Onadeko to resign now rather than arrest Sunday Igboho. Kanu made the call as a swift response to the news making rounds about the arrest of Igboho over his quit notice to herdsmen. Nnamdi Kanu, in a statement, warned Ngozi to ensure nothing happens to Igboho and Yoruba youths rising up against herdsmen. Nnamdi Kanu stated that “You are an Igbo woman so I expect you to be reasonable enough to know that Fulani IGP posted you to Oyo to superintend the arrest or possible killing of Yoruba youths in order to ferment enmity between the East and the West at this critical juncture in the history of the liberation of all indigenous peoples across Nigeria, including you and your family. “I will advise you to resign honourably from your position as a certain Yoruba CP did in Abia State when he declined to order men under his command to open fire on IPOB protesters. “I am warning you not to do anything likely to jeopardise the safety or well-being of Sunday Ighoho otherwise you and your family will have the might of IPOB to contend with. “The silly game you people always play will no longer wash with us. Suddenly Fulani has realised that appointing an Igbo woman as Police Commissioner is a good thing because they want to use you. Nothing should happen to Igboho.” Vanguard News Nigeria As Afaraukwu kinsmen of the leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, prepare for the burial of their traditional ruler, Eze Okwu Kanu, and his wife, Ugoeze Sally Kanu, there are speculations on whether Kanu will return home from the United Kingdom (UK) to pay his… January 26, 2020 In "News" Inspector-General of Police Mohammed Adamu, according to the presidential spokesman Garba Shehu, has ordered the arrest of Yoruba activist Sunday Adeyemo AKA Igboho. January 23, 2021 In "News" THE leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, has condemned the arrest of the convener of the Katsina protest over the unending killings of the people there, saying that more protest would be witnessed in the north over the spate of insecurity. June 19, 2020 In "News"