The Managing Director of First City Monument Bank, Mr Adam Nuhu, has preceded on leave following the ongoing investigations by the bank’s Board of Directors on the allegations of extra marital affairs with an ex-staff of the bank. The bank in a statement, said the development would guarantee the sanctity of the review action the Board has initiated on the allegation. The statement reads: “We are aware of several stories circulating across several media platforms about our bank’s Managing Director Adam Nuru, a former employee Mrs Moyo Thomas and her deceased husband, Mr Tunde Thomas. “While this is a personal matter, the tragedy of the death of Mr Tunde Thomas and the allegations of unethical conduct require the bank’s board to conduct a review of what transpired, any violations of our code of ethics and the adequacy of this code of ethics. This is already under way. “During the period of the review, the Managing Director has volunteered to proceed on leave. This will guarantee the sanctity of the review process. “We enjoin all our stakeholders to bear with us as we conductthis review and to please respect the various families involved.” Vanguard News Nigeria The call by the  United States government for a fresh and in-depth investigation into the allegations against the President of African Development Bank, Mr Akinwumi Adesina, after he was cleared of all allegations of impropriety and fraud by the ethics committee recently, is seen as a plan to destabilise the… May 26, 2020 In "News" A new perspective into the travails of the President of African Development Bank (AfDB), Dr. Akinwumi Adesina, was offered, yesterday, by a former Director General of the Nigerian Institute of International Affairs (NIIA), Professor Bola Akinterinwa, who described Adesina as a victim of colonial repression. May 31, 2020 In "News" The President of African Development Bank, AfDB, Akinwumi Adesina, has responded all the 16 but one allegations levelled against him by whistleblowers. May 29, 2020 In "News"