The Bauchi state Hisbah says it recently arrested no fewer than six youths who specialized in organizing sex orgies and fomenting trouble in Dolam village, in Tafawa Balewa Local Government Area of the state. Malam Aminu Idris, the permanent commissioner in-charge of Hisbah and Sharia implementation, disclosed this in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Bauchi, on Monday. Idris, who identified the culprits as Abdurrauf Kabir, 25, Dabo Yusuf, 26, Abdurrazak Isah, 24, Habu Umar, 27, Yaron Nuhu-Maikaji, 30, and Abdurrashid Shehu, 31, said they were using a primary school building in the area to commit the act. He said the culprits were in the habit of organizing disco parties, locally called Gwaidu, during which they lured young girls into illicit sexual relationships, while at times they used force to intimidate innocent people. Idris said the attention of his department was drawn by the local Hisbah office in the area, after which the office swung into action and arrested all those involved. After discreet investigations, the commissioner said, the state Hisbah office summoned the parents of the culprits, counselled them and made them sign an undertaking against repeating the offence. Idris said the Hisbah department would, henceforth, not hesitate to prosecute such culprits in a competent court of law, stressing, ”as a Lawyer I will do everything possible to ensure that our existing laws were not flagrantly violated”. He appealed to the state government to hasten the appointment of the state Hisbah Board, as well as provide additional financial and logistics support to the department to enable it to perform optimally. The News Agency of Nigeria reports that only recently, the Hisbah department also confiscated and destroyed no fewer than 885 cartons of liquor, as part of its efforts to implement Sharia law in the state. (NAN) Vanguard News Nigeria Jigawa State Hisbah Command has arrested 21 commercial sex workers, as part of efforts to stop them from operating in the state. September 5, 2013 In "News" The Sharia Commission in Bauchi State said it received a total of 886 cases, reconciled 774 and prosecuted 20 between January and June. Malam Ibrahim Musa-Yisin, the commission’s Commander of Hisbah, made the disclosure in an interview with newsmen in Bauchi yesterday. Musa-Yisin said 90 cases were still being investigated… June 19, 2020 In "Facing The Ka'aba" ....Decisive actions will be taken against singer, says Hisbah, Police By Bashir Bello KANO - Angry youths have on Wednesday staged a protest over what they described as blasphemy against the Holy Prophet, Prophet Muhammad (SAW) in a song composed by a youth, Yahaya Aminu Babangona. Babangona, a resident of… March 5, 2020 In "News"