No fewer than three persons lost their lives, while four others sustained injuries on Tuesday, as a container fell on an 18-seater bus at Celica area on Ibadan-Ife expressway, Ibadan. The Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) Sector Commander in Oyo State, Mrs Uche Chukwurah, confirmed this in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Tuesday in Ibadan. Chukwurah said that seven people were involved in the accident, while those, who lost their lives – two males and a female, were trapped when the container fell and pushed the bus inside a ditch. She attributed the accident to break failure and loss of control by the driver of the vehicle carrying the container. The sector commander said that the corpses of the deceased had been deposited at the morgue of the State Hospital, Adeoyo, while two of the injured were taken to a private hospital in Ibadan. She added that the only female among the injured was taken to the University College Hospital (UCH), Ibadan for medical attention, owing to her critical condition. The sector commander also said that the container had been removed from the road to ensure free flow of traffic. (NAN) Vanguard News Nigeria The Ogun Command of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) on Wednesday said that three persons died while four others sustained injuries in an accident that happened around Kara Market on Lagos-Ibadan Expressway. Mr. Clement Oladele, the state Sector Commander, told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Ota, Ogun,… December 18, 2019 In "News" The Ogun Command of Federal Road Safety Corps(FRSC) on Saturday said that three persons died while three others sustained injuries in an accident that involved a vehicle around Lufuape, near AP Turning Point, on Lagos-Ibadan Expressway. Mr. Clement Oladele, Ogun Sector Commander of FRSC, told News Agency of Nigeria(NAN) in… December 28, 2019 In "News" Nine persons, two female and seven male adults, lost their lives, while six others sustained various degrees of injuries in an accident involving a Macoppolo bus and an Iveko truck at Aseese area of Lagos-Ibadan Expressway in Ogun State, yesterday. October 24, 2018 In "News"