The Federal Ministry of Education says the Jan.18, 2021 date for schools to resume is not sacrosanct, hence a new date may be announced depending on the nation’s COVID-19 indicators. The Minister of Education, Mr Adamu Adamu gave the hint on Monday in Abuja,  at the joint national briefing of the Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the  PTF in December 2020, ordered schools in the country to remain closed until Jan. 18, 2021. Adamu said,“When we decided on that date, it was just a target toward what we are working on. “’ Of course we are keeping it in view and looking at what is happening in the society and then it is supposed to be subject to constant review. “’ Even today at the PTF meeting, we looked at the rising figures and thought we should probably take another look at it. On the Jan.18, 2021 date for schools resumption, we are reviewing it,” he said. The minister added that the issue was considered at the PTF meeting held on Monday and the ministry would take it up on Tuesday. Vanguard News Nigeria The Federal Ministry of Education says the Jan.18, 2021 date for schools to resume is not sacrosanct, hence a new date may be announced depending on the nation’s COVID-19 indicators. The Minister of Education, Mr Adamu Adamu gave the hint on Monday in Abuja, at the joint national briefing of… January 12, 2021 In "Education" *As Nigeria's hospital capacity strained *Warns against overcrowding at NIMC enrollment centres *'Why we can't produce vaccines in Nigeria' *Declares, No state is immune, set to roll out rapid test kits in Abuja By Omeiza Ajayi The Federal Government has announced its decision to review the COVID-19 safety protocols as… January 11, 2021 In "News" *Says FG may suspend NIN registration *To review safety protocols, schools resumption date *Says Nigeria’s hospital capacity strained *Declares no state’s immune, set to roll out rapid test kits in Abuja *NIMC staff threaten to down tools again, issue 21days ultimatum By Sola Ogundipe, Omeiza Ajayi, Emmanuel Elebeke & Gabriel… January 12, 2021 In "News"