The Academic Staff Union of Universities, ASUU, University of Lagos, UNILAG, chapter has described the death of Professor Oyewusi Ibidapo Obe as very shocking. The Chapter Chairman, Dr Dele Ashiru, while speaking with our corespodent on Sunday night, said with Ibidapo-Obe’s death, the nation has lost a quintessential scholar and seasoned university administrator. “He was an alumnus of UNILAG and also the Vice Chancellor of this great institution from 2000 to 2007. He was also the pioneer VC of the Federal University in Ebonyi State, one of the universities set up by the Goodluck Jonathan adminstration. “As a union, we are shocked by the development and our heartfelt condolences to his family members and relations,” he said. The Vice Chancellor of the University of Lagos, Professor Oluwatoyin Ogundipe, said it was unfortunate that Professor Oyewusi Ibidapo-Obe died at this moment. “We are saddened by the development and we pray that God accepts his soul,” he said in a telephone chat. Also, the spokesman of Crawford University, Igbesa, Ogun State, Mr Layi Olajumoke, where he was the Pro-Chancellor, expressed grief about his death. The university is expected to make a formal statement later. Vanguard News Nigeria The Vice Chancellor,Federal University Ndufu-Alike, Ebonyi State, Professor Oyewusi Ibidapo-Obe, former Minister of Education, Dr Oby Ezekwesili, Tiina Raatikainen who is a Lead Expert with EduCluster Finland and a host of experts in the education sector over the weekend spoke with one voice, calling for training and retraining of teachers… November 29, 2012 In "Education" Former University of Lagos Vice-chancellor, Professor Ibidapo Obe, has died of COVID-19 complications. The former University don passed away on Sunday, 3rd January 2020. Professor Oyewusi Ibidapo-Obe, was former President of the Nigeria Academy of Science, attended both Ilesa Grammar School and Igbobi College from 1962 - 1968 and the… January 3, 2021 In "Coronavirus Updates" VICE Chancellors and lecturers have continued to query the rationale behind the low ranking of Nigerian universities over the years, arguing that if things are done as it ought to be many Nigerian universities will be among the top ranking universities in the world. October 16, 2014 In "Education"