The police in Edo state yesterday said two out of the ten persons that escaped from its custody at the State Criminal Investigation Department (SCID) have been rearrested while efforts are being intensified to track the remaining eight. There was tension and fear in Benin City on Sunday when news filtered in that an unspecified number of detainees have escaped from detention at the state Command Headquarter of the Nigerian Police. Most of the escapees are said to be those arrested for kidnappings, robbery and the ongoing cult-related killings in the state. A statement yesterday by the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Edo State Command, Chidi Nwabuzor also said the policemen on duty when the incident happened on New Year day have been identified and would face disciplinary actions. The statement read: “Edo State Police Command wishes to inform the general public that ten suspects escaped on the 1st of January, 2021 at about 0245hrs (2.45 am), out which two have been re-arrested and brought back to custody. The figure is not as being maliciously and falsely speculated on social media. “That eight (8) of the suspects were detained on the order of court, in summary; stealing – 1, Murder- 1, Cultism-3, Robbery-3, while the other two were under Police investigation for stealing. It is worthy to note that the quick mobilization and response of officers curbed further escape of the suspects. “The Policemen who were responsible for the safe custody of the escaped suspects have been identified, arrested and detained for the departmental disciplinary process. The effort is being intensified to re-arrest the fleeing suspects. “The command has the wherewithal/intelligence to re-arrest the remaining suspects who are on the run but will still appreciate any useful information from the members of the public as no stone will be left unturned in assuring that all those suspects are re-arrested. “The Command assures members of the public of its continued commitment to protecting lives and property of law-abiding citizens. Vanguard News Nigeria The Police Command in Edo on Monday confirmed a cell break incident at the Command Headquarters in Benin and dispelled the rumour on the number of escapees. The confirmation is contained in a statement signed by SP Chidi Nwabuzor, the Police Public Relations Officer of the command. According to the… January 4, 2021 In "News" By Nwafor Sunday Hours after he escaped in Oko Correctional Centre in Edo state, with other prisoners, a yet to be disclosed Prisoner, has reportedly killed his neighbor who testified against him in court. About 1,993 prisoners escaped from two correctional facilities in Edo state. Few have been arrested while… October 29, 2020 In "News" ***Female journalist robbed at gunpoint By Ozioruva Aliu - Benin City There was tension and fear in Benin City, headquarter of Edo state as news filtered in that an unspecified number of detainees reportedly escaped from detention at the state Command Headquarter of the Nigerian Police on Saturday night. Most… January 3, 2021 In "Metro"