FORMER Governor of Imo State, and the Senator representing Imo West Senatorial District, Rochas Okorocha, yesterday, said that he is still a member of the All Progressives Congress, APC. Okorocha stated this in Owerri through a statement from his Special Adviser on Media, Sam Onwuemeodo, after a meeting with members of APC of his rescue mission and that of Daniel Nwafor’s leadership where he reacted to report that he is planning to form a new political party. According to Okorocha: “Our Party is APC. Don’t be confused when I said that there were bad people and good people in both APC and PDP. And that the good people in the two parties should come together for the good of the nation. I was talking about a movement and not party. “I have not left APC. I am still in APC. Nobody has stake in APC more than me. The worst insults I had in Imo and in the South-East in 2015 were because of APC and President Muhammadu Buhari. APC was formed by President Buhari, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, myself and few other people. But those on congratulation trip, have taken over the Party.” Okorocha said that “Daniel Nwafor and others duly elected as the executives of the party remain as such. Those who want to destroy the party lied to President Buhari. The judgements on the issue all stated that the NEC of the party or the governor, cannot remove the Party Excos. The party Executives can only be removed by Convention. “Whatever they do here without the duly elected Party officials in the State, including the planned registration exercise, expected to begin on Monday, would be null and void. We do not recognize Governor Uzodinma’s APC in Imo. That’s not APC in Imo State. How many APC members are among his more than 120 appointees? None of Course.” Vanguard News Nigeria By Chinonso Alozie - Owerri Former governor of Imo state, and the Senator representing Imo West Senatorial District, Rochas Okorocha said that his still a member of the All Progressives Congress, APC. Okorocha stated this in Owerri through a statement from his Special Adviser on media, Sam Onwuemeodo, from a… January 24, 2021 In "Politics" A chieftain of All Progressives Congress, APC, and former governor of Imo State, Senator Rochas Okorocha, has said respect for President Muhammadu Buhari was the only reason the party is still intact, warning that there could be an imminent implosion in the party if the leadership failed to address some… September 21, 2020 In "Edo elections" Former Imo Action Alliance (AA) governorship candidate, Mr Uche Nwosu, has expressed optimism that achievements of President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration were obvious to earn the All Progressives Congress (APC) continuity in power by 2023. Nwosu, who recently returned to the APC along with his supporters, expressed the optimism in an… January 9, 2020 In "News"