Nigeria will receive 10 million doses of coronavirus vaccine in March, Health Minister Osagie Ehanire, said in a statement late Thursday. The vaccines add to 100,000 expected doses of Pfizer vaccine, he said. The statement did not specify which type of vaccine would be used for the 10 million doses. It was also unclear whether the batch would be financed by the African Union (AU) or as part of COVAX, which links the World Health Organization (WHO) with private partners to work for pooled procurement and equitable distribution. With around 200 million people, Nigeria has officially reported some 104,000 Covid-19 cases, of which 1,382 have been fatal. But these figures are believed to fall short of the real toll, since the number of tests in low. Cases have risen sharply since the end of November, notably in the economic capital Lagos, a city of about 20 million people. The death rate has also increased. A variant strain of coronavirus has been discovered in recent months but it remains unclear whether it is more contagious or deadly. The authorities recently announced that they hope to vaccinate 40 per cent of the population in the year 2021. But the challenges of transporting and storing vaccines for many millions of people are enormous in a country where adequate hospital facilities are lacking. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria …How African countries are preparing for vaccine roll-out …Owners of dormant accounts, unclaimed dividends have nothing to fear …Debt Service gulps N3. 3trn …N4.691trn lost to tax waivers …No more fuel subsidy By Emma Ujah, Abuja Bureau Chief &  Sola Ogundipe, Health Editor The Federal Government said yesterday it was… January 13, 2021 In "Health" South Africa, the continent's hardest virus-hit country has missed the initial payment deadline to join the COVAX Covid-19 vaccine distribution scheme, local media reported Thursday. The country, which accounts for more than a third of Africa's 2.2 million infections, is expecting to secure its first doses through the World Health… December 3, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" As 84,655,749 Nigerians to get vaccination in 1st quarter Frontline workers, adults, uniformed personnel, high burden states top priority list By Chioma Obinna As concerns have continued to mount on the place of Nigeria in the procurement of vaccines as well as the funding capacity of the country, Nigeria by… January 11, 2021 In "Coronavirus Updates"