The Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Mr. Abubakar Malami, SAN, has denied allegation that he received gratification from the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Senator Godswill Akpabio, to facilitate the appointment of a Sole Administrator for the Niger Delta Development Commission, NDDC. The AGF, in a statement on Friday, said the allegation was the handiwork of “mischief makers”, even as he expressed readiness to surrender himself for investigation. “While calling on Nigerians to disregard the information Malami, therefore, asked individuals who have any information, if any, regarding those who facilitated, accepted, delivered or took part in one way or the other in the alleged offer and purported acceptance of gratification for him or his office to come out publically with the information with a view to exposing them and taking further necessary action. “Malami stated further that gratification is a criminal offence. “He, accordingly, encouraged the purveyors of the fictitious publication to approach relevant security and law enforcement agencies and proffer information that could lead to the criminal investigation and investigation against him if they feel strongly about their purported claim”. Vanguard News Nigeria  A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress, Jackson Lekan Ojo has called on the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Senator Godswill Akpabio to step aside over allegations of financial recklessness in the Niger Delta Development Commission, NDDC leveled against him. July 17, 2020 In "News" Niger Delta Renaissance Coalition, Saturday described the letter from the Interim Management Committee (IMC) of the Niger Delta Development Commission, NDDC, asking Dr. Joi Nunieh (former Ag MD in the IMC) to refund N1.96 billion to the commission, as an acceptance and admittance of financial mismanagement and recklessness. August 8, 2020 In "News" ...insists witness summon against him unconstitutional By Ikechukwu Nnochiri The Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, SAN, on Thursday, gave reasons why he would not appear as a witness in the ongoing probe of the suspended Acting Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC,… September 24, 2020 In "News"