There was an uproar in Victoria Island area of Lagos weekend as Military personnel allegedly hired by the driver of a vehicle with covered number plate attempted to shoot operatives of the Rapid Response Squad, RRS, in a bid to prevent them from impounding the vehicle. The driver of the vehicle, Adam Oluremi, 32, was arrested alongside the vehicle, a Mercedes Benz, ML 350. Five other vehicles with covered plate numbers were also impounded by the policemen. The Squad’s action was in compliance of the Lagos State Government order to the Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu, to impound any vehicle driven with covered plate number in the state. As at the time of writing this report, five of the vehicles had  been transferred to the Lagos State Taskforce on Environmental Sanitation and Special Offences The RRS  officers according to the Lagos State Police Command,  professionally de-escalated the crisis and successfully towed the sixth vehicle to RRS Headquarters. Commenting on the issue, the Lagos State Commissioner of Police, CP Hakeem Odumosu, who directed that the vehicle be impounded and the driver prosecuted, maintained that nobody was above the law. However, the  RRS Commander, CSP Olayinka Egbeyemi, has charged officers of the squad to be professional in the discharge of their responsibilities, adding that they should be civil and firm in enforcing the law. He also urged them to be dedicated and not to give room for distractions while on duty, even as he informed that “ law-abiding Lagosians should look forward to a robust relationship. The squad would be uncompromising with criminals. Criminals  should either shape up with the laws of the State or relocate” Vanguard News Nigeria Four Rapid Response Squad, RRS, operatives of the Lagos State Police Command escaped death by the whisker in the early hour of yesterday, as a speeding KIA Rio, belonging to a car hire operator rammed into their vehicle, while they were on duty around Ogudu-Alapere area of the state. June 19, 2016 In "News" By Evelyn Usman Henceforth, any vehicle in Lagos State which has PILOT or ESCORT as plate number will be impounded and the policemen attached to it arrested. This warning was handed down by the Commissioner of Police, Lagos State Police Command, CP Hakeem Odumosu, over the weekend, at the command's… January 12, 2021 In "News" By Bose Adelaja Lagos State Police Command has impounded 43 motorcycles, three vehicles just as it has arrested two traffic robbers in the state. The motorcycles were impounded for plying prohibited routes in Alausa Business District, Ikeja while the vehicles were impounded for covering to their number plates. Again, the… January 10, 2021 In "Metro"