The Federal Government has concluded plans to shut the Lagos Island bound traffic on the Third Mainland Bridge for two weeks commencing from Wednesday, January 13, as part of ongoing rehabilitation works. Federal Controller, Works Lagos, Engineer Popoola Olukayode announced this in a statement, released at the weekend, titled: “Shifting of current diversion point towards Oworosonki and closing of the Lagos Island bound carriageway including the Adekunle slip Road.” Olukayode, who also notified the Lagos State Government, through the Ministry of Transportation called for cooperation and understanding from the public, particularly, motorists. According to Popoola, “The contractor plans to shift the current diversion point 2 kilometres towards Oworonsoki and close to traffic the Lagos Island bound carriageway including the Adekunle bound slip road beside the current diversion points for two weeks starting from Wednesday, January 12 to 27. ”This is to enable her remove, replace and cast in place joint 23 after the current diversion point alongside the other two joints—16 and 17. She is working on presently on the Lagos Island bound carriageway.” He explained that after casting the three joints and asphalting, the whole Lagos Island bound carriageway will be reopened to traffic. Popoola, however, assured that the repairs would not be delayed unnecessary to allow for smooth traffic. Vanguard News Nigeria Release six months traffic plan, advisory Residents kick, want govt to execute projects in phases As traffic chaos persists along LASU-Iba Expressway by Igando axis By Olasunkanmi Akoni The Federal and Lagos State governments on Tuesday said plans have been concluded to embark on immediate routine maintenance works on the… July 7, 2020 In "News" The Federal Government  on Thursday announced a two-day total closure of the Third Mainland Bridge in Lagos State for a concrete work on some sections. The Federal Controller of Works in the state, Mr Olukayode Popoola, told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Lagos that the closure would begin… October 30, 2020 In "News" The Federal Controller of Works Lagos, Mr Olukayode Popoola on Tuesday announced a 72-hour total closure of the Third Mainland Bridge to cast concrete on thee expansion joints. Popoola told the Newsmen  in Lagos that the shutdown will take effect from midnight on Saturday to midnight on Tuesday. He added… December 22, 2020 In "News"