British police on Friday hunted a fraudster who tricked a 92-year-old woman into handing over £160 to receive a fake coronavirus vaccine jab in what they called a “disgusting and totally unacceptable assault”. The conman knocked on the door of the pensioner in Surbiton, southwest London, on December 30, claiming to work for the state-run National Health Service (NHS). She let him into her home, where he jabbed her in the arm with a “dart-like implement” before asking her for £160 ($217, 177 euros), which he said would be refunded. The City of London Police, which investigates frauds and other scams, said it was not known what substance was injected, but the victim showed no ill effects. “It is crucial we catch him as soon as possible as not only is he defrauding individuals of money, he may endanger people’s lives,” said Detective Inspector Kevin Ives. Meanwhile, Northern Ireland police warned internet users about a phishing scam in which they are told they are “eligible” for a vaccine before being asked for bank details. Britain began a mass vaccination programme on December 8 last year, prioritising care home residents and workers, the over-70s, and other vulnerable groups. AFP Vanguard News Nigeria As COVID-19 deaths climb ever higher, millions of lives are at risk in developing nations where lockdowns and overwhelmed medical systems are disrupting vital testing, vaccination and treatment for other killer diseases. The pandemic has seen unprecedented social distancing measures, with billions confined to their homes in a bid to… May 7, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" Margaret Keenan, a 90-year-old British grandmother has become the first person in the world to get the new Pfizer Covid-19 jab on Tuesday, as the NHS kicked off its biggest vaccine campaign ever. December 8, 2020 In "Health" *GOC, 6 Div, General Irefin dies of COVID-19 complications *Army cancels annual conference, urges PSOs, GOCs, others to self-isolate *Nigeria to get COVID-19 vaccine January 2021, says Okonjo-Iweala By Kingsley Omonobi The General  Officer Commanding 6 Division, Nigerian Army, Port Harcourt, Major General Olu Irefin, has died of complications from… December 11, 2020 In "News"