PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari has congratulated the new United States of America, USA President, Joe Biden and the Vice President, Senator Kamala Harris as they took the oath of office on Wednesday. President Buhari in a statement issued by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Mallam Garba Shehu in Abuja last night expressed hope that their presidency will mark a strong point of cooperation and support for Nigeria as well as the African continent. The President congratulated the leaders, and the entire country on the successful transition, which marks an important historical inflexion point for democracy as a system of government and for the global community as a whole. He said, “We look forward to the Biden presidency with great hope and optimism for the strengthening of existing cordial relationships, working together to tackle global terrorism, climate change, poverty and improvement of economic ties and expansion of trade. “We hope that this will be an era of great positivity between our two nations, as we jointly address issues of mutual interest.” The statement further said,” President Buhari and all Nigerians rejoice with President Joe Biden, sharing the proud feeling that the first woman elected Vice President of the United States has African and Asian ancestry.” Vanguard News Nigeria More congratulatory messages from African leaders have continued to pour into Washington following the election of Democratic candidate Joe Biden as the 46th president of the United States of America. The latest messages came from Sudan, South Africa, Kenya, Libya, Ghana and Mauritania – all of them highlighting the need… November 9, 2020 In "News" By Tordue Salem - Abuja The Minority Caucus of the House of Representatives on Tuesday hailed President-elect Joe Biden and his Vice, Kamala Harris on their election. Biden was, on Saturday, declared the 46th President of the United States of America. The caucus also congratulated" the US Vice President-elect, Senator… November 10, 2020 In "News" By Tordue Salem, Abuja The Minority Caucus of the House of Representatives on Tuesday hailed President-elect Joe Biden and his Vice, Kamala Harris on their election. Biden was, on Saturday, declared the 46th President of the United States of America. The caucus also congratulated" the US Vice President-elect, Senator Kamala… November 10, 2020 In "News"