The Kano State government has on Monday confirmed that additional five more children missing from the state have been found in Anambra and Enugu State. The State’s Commissioner of Information, Muhammad Garba confirmed the development to newsmen in the state. Garba said it got information of seven children but five out of the children have been identified by their parents while two others were yet to be identified. According to him, “We recovered some seven children. Five out of the seven children have been identified by their parents. But we are making efforts to bring seven of the children instead of the five. So that the parents too can come and identify if they are their children,” the Commissioner said. He said the children were in addition to the earlier nine missing children found. Recall that nine of the missing children were said to have been recovered from Anambra sometime in October 2019. Leader of the parents of the missing children, Ibrahim Isma’il said three of the children were found in orphanage homes in Anambra while the remaining four were found in Enugu. In a related development, the State’s Commissioner of Justice and Attorney General, Bar. Musa Lawan said the investigation is ongoing to uncover the whereabouts of the remaining missing children. The Commissioner told the parents to exercise patience while assuring them that the government will do all it can to recover the missing children. Meanwhile, some of the suspects who conspired in the kidnapping, abducting, trafficking, buying, and selling of the children have been arrested and standing trial in court. Vanguard News Nigeria Chinedu Adonu - Enugu The Enugu State Police Command said on Friday that nine children have been rescued from two suspected child traffickers who specialised in moving children from Plateau to River State. The state Commissioner of Police, Ahmed Abdulrahman, who paraded the suspects, said they were intercepted on January… January 17, 2020 In "News" Police Command in Enugu State on Friday paraded two suspected child traffickers who specialize in moving children from Plateau State in North Central zone to River State in South-South zone. Parading the suspects in Enugu, the state Commissioner of Police, Mr Ahmed Abdurrahman, said that the suspects were intercepted trafficking… January 17, 2020 In "News" By Chinedu Adonu The police command in Enugu state said they have rescued nine kids from two suspected child traffickers who specialize in moving children from Plateau State in North Central zone to River State in South-South zone. Parading the two suspects in Enugu, the state Commissioner of Police, Mr… January 19, 2020 In "News"