U.S. President-elect Joe Biden will issue a slew of executive orders in his first hours in the office, in both substantive and symbolic measures to reverse policies instituted during the Trump administration, U.S. media outlets reported. Rejoining the Paris climate accord, reversing the ban on immigration from several Muslim-majority countries, and issuing a mandate on wearing masks while engaging in interstate travel is among the top priorities. According to a memo from incoming chief of staff Ronald Klain cited by The New York Times, CNN and other outlets, Biden will also try to speed up the reunification of families, after children were separated from parents at the U.S. border with Mexico. There are no surprises on the list, which reportedly contains dozens of orders. Biden made the policies cornerstones of his presidential election campaign, seeking to reverse tougher immigration rules, a lax attitude on public health, and an aversion to international cooperation on climate change. Biden has already made it known that he aims to push for another 1.9 trillion dollars in relief and stimulus to help the economy through the coming months of the pandemic. This will involve working with Congress, where he is likely to meet some resistance to more spending after the U.S. government has already pumped trillions into the economy since March. However, jobless data is worrying and business is suffering. According to the Klain memo, Biden will take executive action to suspend housing evictions and student loan payments for the duration of the health crisis. Vanguard News Nigeria *Buhari, Atiku, world leaders hail victory *It is victory of good over evil – Obasanjo By Tony Nwankwo, with agency reports Joseph Robinette Biden Jr. was elected the 46th president of the United States (US), yesterday, promising to restore political normalcy and a spirit of national unity to confront raging… November 8, 2020 In "Foreign" The tense US 2020 election, which was held on November 3, ended with Joe Biden winning the presidency. Even though Donald Trump did not admit losing the presidency, it is clear that Biden is a unanimous president and will take the president’s seat. Donald Trump’s four years of the presidency… December 4, 2020 In "Foreign" …Ex-President Bush, world leaders congratulate President-elect …Republican lawmakers support Trump's legal war A day after clinching the U.S. presidency, Democrat Joe Biden and his advisers have started work on how to address the nation’s coronavirus crisis while reinforcing his intention to bridge America’s gaping political divisions. The president-elect at weekend… November 9, 2020 In "Foreign"