PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari has condemned the killing of 70 people in Zaroumdareye, a border town between Niger Republic and Mali by militants, describing the incident as another clarion call for united action by African leaders against terrorism. President Buhari, while reacting to the incident on Sunday in Abuja, said, “I am profoundly shocked by the large scale death of innocent people at the hands of these callous militants who have no regard for the sanctity of human life.” The President in a statement issued by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Mallam Garba Shehu in Abuja last night said, “We are facing grave security challenges on account of the evil campaign of indiscriminate violence by terrorists in the Sahel and only united action can help us defeat these vicious enemies of humanity.” He stated that “terrorism has now become like a contagion of evil that can spread anytime if united action is not taken.” President Buhari said that “instability in one part of Africa had implications for the security of others.” He recalled that “the destabilisation of Libya in 2011 is producing domino effects on the security of other African countries including Nigeria, Niger, Chad, Cameroon, and others. “The looting of Libyan armouries in the aftermath of Gaddafi’s fall has put dangerous weapons into the hands of terrorists and other criminals who now pose security challenges to other countries. “We are united by common fate and therefore we must act in concert to defeat these evil men who target innocent people. “Let me use this opportunity to express my deepest sympathy for the government, the people of Niger, and the families of the victims,” President Buhari said. Vanguard News Nigeria MILITANTS in the Niger Delta, yesterday, lambasted Second Republic lawmaker and Northern politician, Dr Junaid Mohammed, for asking President Muhammadu Buhari to treat them as terrorists, saying that they were agitators and not terrorists like Boko Haram insurgents. June 28, 2016 In "News" President Muhammadu Buhari on Thursday departed Abuja for N’Djamena, Chad, to preside over the Summit of Heads of States and Governments of the Lake Chad Basin Commission (LCBC). November 29, 2018 In "News" Outspoken Northern politician, Dr. Junaid Mohammed, has asked President Muhammadu Buhari to treat the Niger Delta Avengers, NDA, as terrorists and mete out appropriate military action against it as it is doing to Boko Haram insurgents in the North. June 27, 2016 In "News"