US President Donald Trump on Friday accused Twitter of conspiring with his political enemies “to silence me,” after the social media platform permanently suspended his account. “Twitter has gone further and further in banning free speech, and tonight, Twitter employees have coordinated with the Democrats and the Radical Left in removing my account from their platform, to silence me — and YOU, the 75,000,000 great patriots who voted for me,” he said in a series of tweets from the official @POTUS account. The post was swiftly deleted by Twitter. Apparently expecting such a move, Trump also put out his comments as a statement through the White House press office. Trump signalled to his followers, of which he had 88.7 million on  @realDonaldTrump until it was shut down, that they would have a new place to meet virtually soon. “We have been negotiating with various other sites, and will have a big announcement soon, while we also look at the possibilities of building out our own platform in the near future. “We will not be SILENCED!” he declared. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria Twitter said Thursday it would label and deprioritize tweets from politicians that break its rules -- in a move that could affect the prodigious output of US President Donald Trump. June 27, 2019 In "News" President Donald Trump on Wednesday threatened social media companies with new regulation or even shuttering after Twitter moved a day earlier to add fact checks to two of his tweets. The president can’t unilaterally regulate or close the companies, which would require action by Congress or the Federal Communications Commission.… May 27, 2020 In "Foreign" The outgoing United States President Donald Trump has been "indefinitely" banned from Facebook and is temporarily banned from tweeting to his over 88 million followers after a night of violence in Washington D.C. Social media giants Twitter, Facebook and its subsidiary Instagram announced they were suspending US President Donald Trump's accounts… January 7, 2021 In "News"