South African police have arrested more than 7,000 people caught without face masks in public since the end of December, the government said on Wednesday. Officials made face coverings mandatory in May last year at the same time as they gradually eased movement restrictions imposed in March to stem coronavirus infections. A partial lockdown was reinstated last month as the virus resurged, fuelled by a more transmissible variant. Officials at the time vowed to be more stringent in enforcing the regulations, which include an alcohol sales ban. Police Minister Bheki Cele on Wednesday said more than 20,000 people had been arrested or fined since December 29 for breaching the new rules, including 7,455 people detained for not wearing face masks. More than 830 people have also been arrested for selling, dispensing and transporting alcohol. “Law enforcement agencies do not enjoy making these arrests,” Cele noted in a statement. “However, officers… are left with no choice in the interest of saving lives.” More than 342,000 people have been arrested for contravening coronavirus measures since South Africa declared a national state of disaster in March 2020. The country is the continent’s worst-affected by the pandemic, with more than 1.2 million coronavirus cases and 34,000 deaths recorded to date. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria Philippine authorities on Wednesday warned that more people would be arrested for failing to wear masks in public and could face up to 30 days in prison. The warning is coming as the government steps up enforcement of anti-coronavirus restrictions. The Interior Undersecretary Jonathan Malaya, warned that government would start… July 23, 2020 In "Foreign" South African soldiers trying to slow the spread of the coronavirus fired rubber bullets at hundreds of grocery shoppers in Johannesburg to keep them a safe distance apart, photos taken Saturday show. The soldiers were deployed to a Shoprite in the Yeoville neighborhood, where a crowd of a few hundred… March 29, 2020 In "News" FORECASTS showing that near universal adherence to mask-wearing and social distancing mandates in hard-hit countries could prevent up to 73,085 deaths in Sub-Saharan Africa by December 1, 2020, but the death toll could more than double if universal safety guidelines such as wearing of face masks and social distancing are… August 22, 2020 In "Health"