The Nigerian Entertainment and Media industry has been touted to be tipping towards being the fastest-growing in the world by 2023. This forecast will not be possible without the addition of new stars to the already existing list of top-stars. Taiwo Hassan Aderionye, stage name: Snoweezy, an upcoming music star, in a sit down with Rasheed Sobowale highlighted his journey so far in the industry. He elucidated how he has been solely sponsoring and promoting his music. One of the juicy parts of the conversation was the reminiscence of his studio experience with another fast-rising star, Bella Shmurda. I am Snoweezy, an Afro-Versa artiste and I love arts in general. I perform Afro-Versa which consists of mostly African sounds. Afro-Versa means Afro Versatility. I have been into music since I was 9 years old but I started music officially at 17yrs. To be sincere, it’s been a rough journey so far. One of the most challenging times of my career was when I was recording my debut EP (IMPERFECTION) that I released three months ago. The process was so draining both financially and mentally but thank God for the afterwards as the EP was well accepted and I am still looking forward to more publicity and acceptance of the EP. Snoweezy was given to me by Gidibadass who happens to be a brother and a mentor to me. Yes, my dad is a teacher. At first, he didn’t approve of me doing music but he was later convinced by the passion in me and also his colleagues at work helped in convincing him because he was a teacher at the secondary school I attended. Ever since then, he has been supporting me in his own little way. Oh yeah I did, it wasn’t just a lyric, it’s the truth. You know I said earlier that he doesn’t want me to do music at first, not until he got convinced by my zeal and passion for music. Yes there were many times I felt like giving up. Anytime I am in this kind of feeling I’d just listen to healing music from Brymo and the likes and also read some books to light up myself. We recorded Sombodi in January 2020. Bella was a cool guy at the studio while we were recording. I love his vibes and all, but things went south after we recorded the song. He was expected to show up for the video shoot but he didn’t and also he did nothing on his end to promote the audio. I think that was due to the misunderstanding between him and the agency that connected us. But then, all thanks to God because the acceptance of SOMBODI was massive and awesome. I wish to work with Mayorkun as soon as I can, I hope God makes it possible. The way in which I deliver my music. My style of creativity and the way I relate with people distinguish me a lot from other artistes. If I’m not making music, I’d either be with my friends or thinking about another business. My favourite sport is lawn tennis. I support Barcelona FC. Up Barca!!! Hmm, I don’t think I have any. At least so far. I have not been signed to a label yet but I am currently being managed by a management team (YYB Records) that I co-founded with my twin brother and some other friends. We have been handling my progress together ever since. Growing up, I listened to various artistes who inspired my sounds and styles of music. The likes of 2face, 9ice, Brymo, Saheed Osupa, to mention a few. I wish I was told music consumes a lot of money. I mean a lot of money. And fame isn’t all it takes to be a great artiste. The performance I did on the night of my EP listening party will be one I can’t forget anytime soon and also my performance at Federal Polytechnic Ilaro, SUG week. Those were some of the memorable performances I can never forget anytime soon. My sounds should be one of the African sounds to be reckoned with outside and inside Africa. “Once again I go by the name S to the N to the O WEEZY, SNOWEEZY!!!” Vanguard News Nigeria Aderinoye Hassan Taiwo popularly known as Snoweezy has released his debut EP titled “Imperfection”. The rising talented musician, Snoweezy, puts out this body of work, following the successes of his various hit singles ranging from ‘Sombodi‘ featuring Bella Shmurda, among others. He felt it is best to bless his precious… October 20, 2020 In "Entertainment" Afolabi Olanrewaju Lateef professionally known as DIISTILL is a Nigerian Afro-pop singer/Rapper known for his afro vibe and irresistible vocal deliveries since he broke out into the music industry officially in 2019. Diistill hails from Osun State but was born and brought up in Igando, Alimosho Local government, Lagos State.… October 2, 2020 In "News" Since Bonkwe released the single ‘Na you I go marry’ his fortune in the music industry has greatly improved as he has become a known voice on the streets. The budding Afro-pop star shares his story with Star Tracker and tells us what makes him tick: June 25, 2016 In "Entertainment"