The Igbo National Council, INC, yesterday said that the enemies of Igbo were behind the infighting leading to litigations in Ohanaeze Ndigbo just to split the body, especially for political reasons. The president of the association, Chilos Godsent, spoke to newsmen in Owerri, on the litigations and counter litigations riddling the Ohanaeze leadership ahead of its President-General election scheduled on 10 January. INC also called on the outgoing president, Chief John Nnia Nwodo, to diligently create a free and fair atmosphere for the upcoming election. It should be recalled that the embattled Secretary-General of Ohanaeze, Uche Okwukwu, had gone to court to challenge the Chief Gary Igariwey electoral committee set up by the outgoing president, Chief Nwodo, arguing that it was unconstitutional. This came after, Okwukwu, had set up his own electoral committee, headed by Chief Richard Ozubu. But according to INC, “The Igbo National Council (INC) Worldwide condemn in its totality the series of court injunctions and legal summons and litigation by the Igbo Political Stakeholders against the forthcoming elections of the Ohanaeze Ndigbo scheduled for 10th January 2021. “INC is of the view that by all this litigation the Igbo Political Stakeholders and chieftains of the Ohanaeze Ndigbo might be playing the scripts of the enemies of the Igbo Race.” “We also condemn in strong terms the notion of Imo State Consensus candidate on the position of the President General. “We, therefore, call on the outgoing leadership of Ohanaeze Ndigbo and the Electoral committee to create the enabling environment for fair play and equal opportunity for all the aspirants or candidates in the forthcoming election of Ohanaeze Ndigbo,” INC said. Vanguard News Nigeria THREE days to the National Election of the apex Igbo socio-cultural organization, Ohanaeze Ndigbo, the Secretary-General of the organization, Barr. Uche Okwukwu, has dragged the President-General, Chief John Nnia Nwodo, to court, seeking to stop him from conducting the exercise. January 7, 2021 In "Politics" A pressure group, The Igbo Leaders of Thought, led by foremost constitutional lawyer, Prof. Ben Nwabueze, SAN, yesterday commenced legal proceedings against the election of the new executives of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, the pan-Igbo socio-cultural organisation that took place on Tuesday. January 12, 2017 In "News" A factional group of Ohaneze Ndigbo led by the Secretary General of the apex Igbo socio-cultural body, Uche Okwukwu on Friday apologized to President Muhammadu Buhari for the announcement by the main body of the group endorsing the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar for the 2019 elections. February 9, 2019 In "News"