Kwara state government has directed its tertiary institutions to resume on January 11, 2021, under strict adherence to COVID-19 safety protocols, while elementary schools are to resume on January 18, a week after. This is contained in a press statement issued by the Spokesman of the state technical committee on COVID-19, Rafiu Ajakaye Friday evening. The statement reads, “Government has directed that the tertiary institutions should put in place appropriate safety protocols to prevent the spread of the virus on their campuses. ” The coordinating ministry is to work with the state technical committee on COVID-19 and other stakeholders to ensure that the schools do not take safety rules for granted. “Specifically, the use of a face mask is mandatory on the campus and in lecture rooms. Authorities are not to allow anyone, students or otherwise, into college facilities without the use of the face mask. “Similarly, elementary schools in the state are scheduled to resume on January 18, 2021, subject to new developments on the pandemic. “While COVID-19 appears to have come to stay and our communities have to cope with the new normal, the government urges everyone to take responsibilities for their own safety by adhering to protocols already outlined to flatten the curve of transmission.” the statement said. Vanguard News Nigeria The Plateau Government has directed tertiary institutions to resume on Jan. 18, as against the Jan. 4 date earlier announced. Mr Kakmena Audu, the Plateau Commissioner for Higher Education gave the directive in a statement on Thursday in Jos. He said the decision to shift the resumption date was in… December 31, 2020 In "Education" By Demola Akinyemi - Ilorin Kwara state government has announced the reopening of all public and private schools across the state with effect from Monday, October 5, 2020, while Tertiary institutions are to resume as from October 12, 2020. Recall that schools had been ordered shut since 23rd March following… October 1, 2020 In "Education" The Lagos State Government has directed public and private primary and secondary schools in the state to wind down the first term of the 2020/2021 academic session on Friday, 18th December 2020. December 19, 2020 In "Education"