Plans by a six-man robbery gang to carry out an operation in Igbolerin area of Lagos have been frustrated by youths in the area. The robbers said to have been armed, stormed the area at about 11.30 pm, Monday. They were said to have parked their operational motorbikes close to the building they intended to attack its occupants when one of the youths raised the alarm which alerted others. The robbers fired some shots in a bid to scare the youths but exhausted  their bullets in the process. They managed to escape, abandoning some of their weapons. A spokesman for the Lagos State Police Command, CSP Muyiwa Adejobi,  explained further that “The suspected armed robbers came on two unregistered motorbikes with the intention of attacking their targets before they were repelled by the youths who have been involved in the community policing strategies of the command. “One unregistered operational motorbike and one locally made pistol with a live cartridge were recovered at the scene. “The Commissioner of Police Lagos State, CP Hakeem Odumosu, while commending the youths, ordered for the manhunt and arrest of the fleeing armed robbers. He encouraged Lagosians to embrace the idea of community-based policing which has paid off in many areas of the state”. Vanguard News Nigeria MOTORISTS plying the Akure-Ilesha expressway have cried out over the incessant robbery activities by hoodlums suspected to be herdsmen who kidnap, rape, kill, maim and dispossess them of their hard earned money running into millions of naira in the last two months. Infact, deep rooted fear now grip motorists plying… April 21, 2017 In "News" THe Police in Anambra State, seem to be on the war path with criminals ranging from armed robbers, assasins, kidnappers and even fraudsters who have succeeded in creating black spots and hideouts where they carry out their nefarious activites daily. These dangerous spots dot every nook and cranny of the… October 24, 2013 In "Crime Guard" THEY are five in number with different ages, heights and complexion. But they have one thing in common; robbery! The suspected members of a robbery gang, according to the Ogun state police command, were responsible for some of the attacks on travelers along the expressway. September 5, 2012 In "Crime Alert"