THE Presidency last night cautioned the Ondo State Governor, Rotimi Akeredolu over the seven-day ultimatum to the Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria, MACBAN, to vacate the forest reserves over security concerns. The Presidency in a statement issued by the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Mallam Garba, stated that as a lawyer, Governor Akeredolu will be going contrary to the constitution of the country if he should unilaterally oust Fulani herders in the state while tackling insecurity. The Presidency in the statement said asking the herders to leave can set off a chain of events, which the constitution anticipated and tries to guard against and called for caution on both sides. The statement read: “The Presidency has been keenly monitoring events occurring in Ondo State and the ‘orders’ by the government of the state, ‘asking herders to vacate the forests in seven days.’ “What is clearly emerging, is a lack of consistency in messaging which in turn leads to various contradictions regarding the accuracy and the intent behind the message. “There is little to be said other than to call for restraint on both sides and urge the state government and the leadership of the Fulani communities to continue their dialogue for a good understanding that will bring to an urgent end, the nightmarish security challenges facing the state. “Governor Rotimi Akeredolu, a seasoned lawyer, Senior Advocate of Nigeria and indeed, a former President of the Nigerian Bar Association, NBA, has fought crime in his state with passion and commitment, greater sensitivity and compassion for the four years he has run its affairs. “In our view he will be the least expected to unilaterally oust thousands of herders who have lived all their lives in the state on account of the infiltration of the forests by criminals. “If this were to be the case, rights groups will be right in expressing worries that the action could set off a chain of events which the makers of our constitution foresaw and tried to guard against. “We want to make it clear that kidnapping, banditry and rustling are crimes, no matter the motive or who is involved. “But to define crime from the nameplates, as a number of commentators have erroneously done- which group they belong to, the language they speak, their geographical location or their faith is atavistic and cruel. “We need to delink terrorism and crimes from ethnicity, geographical origins and religion—to isolate the criminals who use this interchange of arguments to hinder law enforcement efforts as the only way to deal effectively with them. “The President, who swore to defend the constitution has spoken against the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) in asking citizens of Northern origin to leave; he did not spare the group based in Sokoto, ‘Muslim Solidarity Forum,’ which asked the Bishop of Sokoto to leave and is prepared to do all that the law permits to protect citizens all over the country in their choice of where they wished to reside and are treated as equal citizens. “The government of Ondo and all the 35 others across the federation must draw clear lines between the criminals and the law-abiding citizens who must equally be saved from the infiltrators. Beyond law and order, the fight against crime is also a fight for human values which are fundamental to our country.” Vanguard News Nigeria  --- decries low level of policing in Ondo State   --Set up of 25-member Second Term inauguration Committee   Dayo Johnson Akure   Governor Rotimi Akeredolu of Ondo state has granted a grace of seven days within which all those in possession of illegal arms and ammunition must turn… October 30, 2020 In "News" Though peaceful, last weekend’s governorship election in Ondo State was seen by many observers as a ‘bazaar’ in which the highest bidder got the lion share of the votes. But, whereas all the major political parties allegedly took part in the undemocratic game, the way the All Progressives Congress (APC)… December 4, 2016 In "News" CHAIRMAN of the South West Governor’s Forum and Ondo State governor, Mr. Rotimi Akeredolu, yesterday, assured that the proposed security summit will put an end to the activities of marauding herdsmen and address the insecurity challenges in the region. June 19, 2019 In "News"