Zimbabwe police re-arrested award-winning journalist and government critic Hopewell Chin’ono, as well as one of his defenders, for allegedly posting false information on social media, prosecutors and lawyers said. Chin’ono was detained in July last year ahead of banned anti-graft and anti-government protests he backed through his Twitter account. He was charged with inciting public violence and released on bail one month later. The journalist was behind bars again in November for allegedly obstructing justice after tweeting about a gold smuggling case involving political elites. Another tweet landed Chin’ono back in jail on Friday, this time for sharing a video he claims shows a police officer beating a baby to death in the capital Harare. “The accused published a false statement to members of the public,” said the request for remand form, adding that he had deliberately intended to “undermine the public confidence” in police officers. Chin’ono made a brief court appearance on Saturday for his bail hearing, which was postponed to Monday. One of his lawyers, Job Sikhala, was later arrested on his way out of court for sharing the same video. The Zimbabwe Lawyers for Human Rights group confirmed the arrest and said Sikhala had been charged with the same offence. His bail hearing is also scheduled for Monday. Chin’ono is openly critical of the Harare administration and regularly posts commentary on social media about social and economic hardship in the southern African country. The acclaimed documentary producer was first detained shortly after he helped uncover a multi-million dollar corruption scandal involving coronavirus gear. The expose led to the sacking of Zimbabwe’s health minister Obadiah Moyo and implicated the president’s son. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria Zimbabwe's investigative journalist Hopewell Chin’ono was released from prison on Wednesday. He was arrested six weeks ago for inciting public violence for tweeting his support for an anti-government protest. He had reported on alleged COVID-19 procurement fraud- which led to the health minister being sacked and charged with corruption. I… September 4, 2020 In "Foreign" Zimbabwean police searched the home of arrested journalist Hopewell Chin’ono, who is detained at Harare central police station The outspoken investigative journalist was arrested Monday, along with opposition leader Jacob Ngarivhume on suspicion of “contravening incitement to participate in public violence,” police spokesman Paul Nyathi said. ALSO READ: UN Chief reacts to… July 24, 2020 In "News" Zimbabwe's President Emmerson Mnangagwa on Tuesday imposed a curfew and reinstated strict measures to curb the spread of the coronavirus following a spike in cases in recent weeks. The number of cases recorded in the southern African country, whose health system has been tottering from years of neglect, rose by nearly… July 22, 2020 In "Foreign"