Head of the German parliament on Thursday ordered an investigation into how to prevent a riot similar to the one that occurred at the U.S. Capitol from happening at the Bundestag. “A report has already been requested from the German Embassy in Washington on how the excesses of violence
could come about within the Capitol,” the Bundestag said, citing its president, Wolfgang Schaeuble. The news comes after armed supporters of President Donald Trump stormed the Capitol building on Wednesday and forced a lockdown. Berlin’s Interior Ministry and the parliamentary groups will be involved in the probe, which will look at whether Berlin authorities require training, technical and personnel support from the federal police in protecting the
Bundestag from incursion The German parliament had its own, albeit much smaller security breach on Aug. 29, 2020, when hundreds of right-wing
extremists stormed the steps of the Reichstag on the sidelines of a mass rally against coronavirus restrictions. However, police officers were able to push them back. At that time, leading lawmakers insisted that the Bundestag should remain open to citizens. “We will not turn the Bundestag into a citadel, because that is exactly the goal of the enemies of democracy, to destroy the openness of our parliament,’’ Bundestag Vice President Claudia Roth told Augsburger Vanguard News Nigeria World leaders condemn 'assault on democracy' at US Capitol World leaders and governments on Wednesday expressed shock and outrage at the storming of the US Capitol in Washington by supporters of President Donald Trump. - Britain - British Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Twitter condemned the "disgraceful scenes in U.S.… January 7, 2021 In "Foreign" Donald Trump took the first ceremonial steps before being sworn in as the 45th president of the United States Friday -- ushering in a new political era that has been cheered and feared in equal measure. January 20, 2017 In "News" The outgoing United States President Donald Trump has been "indefinitely" banned from Facebook and is temporarily banned from tweeting to his over 88 million followers after a night of violence in Washington D.C. Social media giants Twitter, Facebook and its subsidiary Instagram announced they were suspending US President Donald Trump's accounts… January 7, 2021 In "News"