Lagos State Governor and Visitor to Lagos State University (LASU), Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu has cancelled the ongoing process set up for the appointment of a substantive ninth Vice-Chancellor of the University. The Governor further directed that a fresh process that would terminate in 45 days should commence immediately. In a statement on Friday, by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Gboyega Akosile, the Governor’s decision on the cancellation came after a thorough investigation and stakeholders engagement, which were necessitated by various petitions against the selection process. According to the statement, “Governor Sanwo-Olu was inundated with petitions arising from the selection process of the Vice-Chancellor by the Governing Council. After a thorough evaluation and investigation of the various complaints, Mr Governor, in his capacity as the Visitor to the University ordered the cancellation of the process.” Therefore, the outgoing Vice-Chancellor, Professor Olanrewaju Fagbohun has also been directed by Sanwo-Olu to convene an emergency Senate meeting for the purpose of appointing one of the Deputy Vice-Chancellors, who is not a candidate in the cancelled selection process as Acting Vice-Chancellor from Monday, January 11, 2021, when the tenure of the incumbent Vice-Chancellor, Professor Fagbohun expires. The Governor further directed that the Senate should select among its members, a pro tem chairman to superintend the meeting and conduct of the election of Acting Vice-Chancellor. Vanguard News Nigeria Following the numerous petitions and pressure on the Visitor to the Lagos State University LASU, who is also the State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, on the choice of a new Vice Chancellor for the university, the governor is expected to appoint an acting VC for the institution. January 8, 2021 In "Education" By Adesina Wahab Tension has gripped both staff and students of the Lagos State University, LASU, as the Visitor to the university, who is also the Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, tarries in announcing a new Vice Chancellor for the institution. Checks by Sunday Vanguard showed that the delay… January 2, 2021 In "Education" Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, who is self-isolating as a result of contacts with an aide who tested positive for COVID-19, on Thursday virtually connected to the activities on the second day of the 24th convocation of the Lagos State University, LASU. December 19, 2020 In "Education"