In the wake of the recent cult-related killings particularly during the yuletide season in Sapele, the outgoing Delta State Commissioner of Police, Mr Hafiz Inuwa has ordered the transfer of all Police Inspectors from the Sapele Police division. Also affected by the transfer are all Police sergeants and rank and file in the division. According to a wireless message dated December 31 and signed by an Assistant Commissioner of Police, Mr Sa’ad Ibrahim with the caption “Reorganization Inspectors/Rank and File,” the transfer is to take effect with immediate effect. The statement which was seen by Vanguard, also hinted that 45 personnel from various divisions across the state have also been deployed to take over the duty posts of those affected. Though the message did not disclose the reason for the mass transfer, the State Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Onome Onowakpoyeya while confirming the transfer when contacted yesterday, debunked claims that the redeployment is as a result of the cult-related killings in the area. According to the police spokesperson, “The transfers have nothing to do with the security situation in the area but just internal police issue, else why was the DPO not removed as well?” However, a police source from the Sapele Police Area Command disclosed that the exercise was among efforts by the police to restrategise in curbing the increased spate of cult-related killings in Sapele. Recall that two persons were killed on the eve of New Year’s day celebration after a hairstylist was also gunned down four days earlier at his shop. Vanguard News Nigeria ABUJA—In a sweeping move to overhaul the operations of the Nigeria Police Force, NPF, Acting Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Abubakar, yesterday directed the immediate transfer of Deputy Commissioners of Police and Assistant Commissioners of Police across the country. April 25, 2012 In "News" FOR one year, seven months running, the Divisional Police Station, Aboh, supposed to provide security for coastal communities in Ndokwa East Local Government Area, Delta State, scandalously, has no arms and ammunition in its armory for police officers deployed to the division to fight crime. May 9, 2020 In "News" INSPECTOR-General of Police, Ibrahim Idris, yesterday, attributed increasing rate of kidnapping in the country to weak laws, saying the menace could conveniently be brought to a permanent end, if the National Assembly comes up with stringent laws. July 27, 2017 In "News"