The Federal Government has accused the International Criminal Court, ICC, and Amnesty International, AI, of becoming part of the country’s security challenges by attacking the country’s security forces and threatening them with prosecution. The Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, made the accusation in his a parley with newsmen in Lagos, Monday. He said a section of the media was parroting these organisations, who are trying to portray the fight against insurgency in a bad light. Lai Mohammed said: “Let me say straight away that Nigeria is fending off attacks on many fronts not just from terrorists and bandits, but also from some human rights organisations and the International Criminal Court, ICC, which seem to have colluded to exacerbate the challenges facing the country in the area of security. ”While our security agencies continue to battle these bandits and terrorists, ICC and some international human rights organisations, especially Amnesty International, have constituted themselves to another fighting force against Nigeria. ”They are constantly harassing our security forces and threatening them with investigation and possible prosecution over alleged crimes against humanity and war crimes. “Unfortunately, a section of the local media has been parroting these organisations without weighing the impact of their constant threats on the security of the nation.” Vanguard News Nigeria THE supply of petroleum products, previously threatened as a result of the proposed strike by Depot and Petroleum Products Marketers Association, DAPPMA, has stabilised nationwide, following the suspension of the action. December 11, 2018 In "News" The International Criminal Court (ICC) has confirmed the receipt of a petition against the activities of Amnesty International in Nigeria. September 12, 2016 In "News" "That the ICC Prosecutor compels the Accused upon conviction to pay compensation to the Federal Government of Nigeria in the sum of $1,000,000,000 (One Billion US Dollars) as punitive damage for defamation." April 9, 2017 In "News"