Tragedy struck again in Lagos on Saturday, when a worker with the Lagos Waste Management Authority LAWMA, identified as Mr Nasiru Saheed, on Saturday, died on active service at Ikoyi area of the state. Recall that a similar incident happened the previous day, precisely on Friday evening, January 22, when a motorist, suddenly slumped and died in his car while driving along CMD Road, Magodo, Ikosi- Isheri Local Council Development Area, Lagos. According to a source, Saheed, on Saturday morning while operation on a LAWMA truck along Alexander Road in Ikoyi, Lagos State, suddenly fell from the machine and as result of the heavy impact of the accident, died immediately. In a viral video on social media, the gory picture was captured as the deceased lied in a pool of his blood wearing LAWMA uniform. LAWMA later confirmed the tragic incident on its official Twitter handle, saying, “LAWMA with a deep sense of regret, announces the death in an accident of one of our waste handlers (Mr Nasiru Saheed) this morning. “The Authority is in touch with the family and will stand by them in this difficult time. “There is a comprehensive insurance cover for all categories of our workers. LAWMA will, through the insurance policy, mitigate the effect of this big loss on the family. “The Authority wishes to state that the welfare of its staff is paramount and we will continue to prioritise the same throughout our operations.” Vanguard News Nigeria Tragedy struck in Lagos, weekend, when a fast moving Private Sector Participant, PSP, truck, under the supervision of the Lagos State Waste Management Authority, LAWMA, crushed dead an Okadaman (commercial motorcyclist) at Council Bus Stop, Egbe-Idimu, Local Council Development Area, LCDA. June 12, 2017 In "Crime Guard" Flags off construction of two Ogudu-Ojota link roads By Olasunkanmi Akoni Lagos State Government has commenced insurance policy for all street sweepers towards enhancing better welfare package and improved waste management in the state. Also, the state government, on Friday, commenced two major road projects, Ogudu-Alapere Link Road and Otunba… July 18, 2020 In "News" Tragedy struck recently in Ibeshe area of Ikorodu, Lagos, after two children were found dead inside a car. One of the children, Olamipo Oluwaferanmi Kadiri, who was two years and three months old, was the last child of a management staff of the Lagos State Waste Management Authority, LAWMA while… January 16, 2013 In "Crime Alert"