A former contestant in the reality TV show, X-Factor, Adasnoop, has set her sights on becoming the best Afrobeat artiste of her generation. The Nigerian-born artiste, whose real name is Anthonia Ezego, auditioned for a place in the global reality TV show X-Factor, a couple of seasons ago and was commended by its producer, Simon Cowell, for displaying great potentials, has been horning her music skills, hopeful of making a breakthrough into the international music industry in the unfolding year. Recalling her time in X-Factor, Adasnoop Kings said: “It gave us more exposure and it increased our confidence. “At the X-Factor, we were lucky to have Simon Cowel as our mentor and chief judge. Simon Cowell really liked us and said people will like us because we are a likable group,” said Adasnoop. Speaking in a virtual interview with reporters from her London base,  Adasnoop said: “My dream is to be the best afrobeat group of all time and the best of the best and also to be with a creditable record label.” Recalling how it all started for her, Adasnoop said her music career was shaped “from my tender age. I have been doing music with my friends before I formed this band Afroswagg in the UK. “So I got my friend Kingsley to get involved in my group. From our tender age, we watched loads of artistes, groups, band on TV and the Internet;  such artistes such as Figures, TLC, Salt-N-Pepa, Black Eye Peas and many more. “Afroswagg is the next big thing. Our kind of music is Afrobeats Urban pop and also we are versatile,” added Adasnoop. Vanguard News Nigeria Spiro Damaskinos, is the International Marketing Director of Sony Music’s RCA Africa label and the Greek guy who has put in 17 years of his life into producing music describes himself simply as “ a music guy” and in the simplest terms, a Disc Jockey, who has worked with countless… August 9, 2013 In "Music" The Abuja audition of X Factor, the world’s number one music reality TV show brought to Africa for the first time by Globacom, ended on an exciting note as twenty-two aspiring singers/groups made it to the next stage of the contest for the unprecedented N24 million prize money and a… April 27, 2013 In "Music" In about 24 hours from now,the curtain shall be drawn on Glo X Factor, the world’s biggest singing reality TV competition and the world shall come to know which of the last standing three acts, DJ Switch, Eshun and Vicky will have her life transformed forever. September 20, 2013 In "Music"