Following the defeat of Bobi Wine in the just-concluded Uganda’s presidential election, Commissioner for Youth Political Participation, Pan-African Youth Union (PYU), Ambassador Oladele Nihi, has described the outcome of the election as a slap on the faces of African youths and a clarion call on Nigerian youths. Ambassador Nihi, in a statement on Sunday, called on African youths to fight against what he described as “recycled leadership and analogue democracy”. He said: “History was made in Uganda on January 14, as the world watched the outcome of the country’s presidential and parliamentary elections. “And as predicted by majority of election observers, the voices of the people were submerged in a total eclipse of political hazard, in which the country’s preferable candidate, Bobi Wine, became a victim. “African Youths should come awake and take their destinies in their hands, by putting an end to recycled leadership, and analogue democracy.” The youth Commissioner further stated that this should serve as a lesson for Nigerian Youths; as the country approaches another general elections come 2023. “The agitation of the People Power, Our Power Movement in Uganda is synonymous to what GYB2PYB Youth Support Group stands for, which is why we are urging Governor Yahaya Bello to contest for President, and lead the youths from the front as we take back what is rightfully ours,” Mr. Nihi said. In the election, the incumbent President, Yoweri Museveni, who has ruled the country since 1986, was re-elected with 5,851,037 (58.64%), as against his opponent, Bobi Wine, who scored 3,475,298 (34.83%). Bobi Wine is a politician, singer, actor and businessman, who currently serves as Member of Parliament for Kyadondo County East constituency in Wakiso District, in Uganda’s Central Region. He is also the leader of People Power, Our Power Movement in opposition to President Yoweri Museveni. Vanguard News Nigeria Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni, who is seeking re-election on Thursday, took power at the head of a bush army in 1986 and has ruled ever since, making him one of the world's longest-serving leaders. - Rebel to ruler - As a young rebel leader, Museveni helps topple dictator Idi Amin… January 14, 2021 In "News" Ugandan opposition figure and a staunch critic of the government, Bobi Wine has launched a new political party ahead of presidential election in 2021. The popular singer and lawmaker, whose real name is Robert Kyagulanyi, has led a political pressure group known as People Power calling for President Yoweri Museveni’s… July 28, 2020 In "News" The Uganda government has designated the red beret as official military clothing that could land members of the public who wear them in jail, a move that essentially bans the uniform of leading opposition leader Bobi Wine and his supporters. Bobi Wine, a pop star turned politician who has announced… October 1, 2019 In "Foreign"