The second impeachment of former US president Donald Trump rests on one article, or charge, of “incitement of insurrection” arising from the January 6 assault on Congress. The charge, set by the House of Representatives, is being submitted to the Senate on Monday. It grows from Trump’s two-month campaign to overturn Joe Biden’s victory in the November 3 presidential election, alleging without evidence that it was based on mass fraud. On January 6, following a rousing speech by Trump near the White House, thousands of his followers marched to the US Capitol and forced their way inside, sending lawmakers fleeing and halting the joint House-Senate session held to certify Biden’s victory. The impeachment charge says that, in the months before, Trump “repeatedly issued false statements asserting that the presidential election results were the result of widespread fraud and should not be accepted by the American people or certified by state or federal officials.” Then on January 6, it says, Trump made statements “that in context, encouraged — and foreseeably resulted in — lawless action at the Capitol.” Trump “incited” the crowd to halt the certification of Biden’s victory, and to menace the vice president, members of Congress and law enforcement officers, resulting in injuries and deaths, the charge says. It also places the charge in the context of Trump’s “prior efforts to subvert and obstruct” Biden’s victory. It cites a threat Trump made to Georgia’s secretary of state in a January 2 telephone call to “find” enough votes to overturn the election result in the state, which went for Biden. “In all this, President Trump gravely endangered the security of the United States and its institutions of government,” the charge says. “He threatened the integrity of the democratic system, interfered with the peaceful transition of power, and imperiled a coequal branch of government.” “He thereby betrayed his trust as president,” damaging the country. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria Donald Trump is on the brink of becoming the first US president to have been impeached twice, with the House of Representatives beginning a debate Wednesday on accusations he incited an insurrection at the US Capitol last week. No president has been ousted from office by impeachment, but even the… January 13, 2021 In "Foreign" US Vice President Mike Pence on Wednesday opened a joint session of Congress to certify Joe Biden's presidential victory, but Republicans quickly lodged an objection, pausing the count of electoral votes. ALSO READ: Pence defies Trump, says he won’t stop Biden win certification Moments after the start of the session, the… January 6, 2021 In "Foreign" Donald Trump emerged from isolation at the White House on Tuesday to brand the likely second impeachment of his presidency “absolutely ridiculous” and warn that it has triggered “tremendous anger.” Speaking as he boarded Marine One at the White House for a trip to Texas, Trump called his scheduled impeachment… January 12, 2021 In "News"