A 23-year-old student, identified as Emmanuel Thomas, has been jailed for five years in Akwa Ibom having been found guilty of belonging to “Red Skin Secret Confraternity”. Thomas, a native of Uruk Uso in Obot Akara Local Government Area, was sentenced yesterday by Justice Okon Okon of Akwa Ibom State High Court sitting in Uyo. Emmanuel Thomas had confessed that he joined the secret cult in 2019 because of the challenges his mother had with her Landlady. He had also confessed in his extra-judicial statement that he was initiated on 29th February 2019 in Ematan Street, off Eka Street, Uyo by one General, who is now at large. In his judgment, Justice Okon held that “by the provision of Section1 (2) of the Cultism, Offensive Weapons and Violent Behaviour Prohibition Law 2004 of Akwa Ibom State, any person who is a member of a cult whether or not, he is in possession of an offensive weapon, is guilty of an offence and is liable on conviction to imprisonment for seven years without an option of fine”. He said, “It is a trite law that where a confessional statement of an accused is tendered in evidence without any objection, the statement will be deemed to have been made voluntarily and its content will be deemed to be true with no amount of subsequent argument against it, vitiating its admissibility.” The Court held that the prosecution from the State Ministry of Justice has proven its case beyond reasonable doubts and accordingly, sentenced the accused to five years in prison without an option of fine. Vanguard News Nigeria UYO—The Police in Akwa Ibom State have launched a manhunt for a notorious woman trafficker in Uyo, who recently purchased a five-year-old girl for N300,000 from suspected thieves. May 21, 2018 In "Crime Guard" GOVERNOR Udom Emmanuel of Akwa Ibom State has signed into force, the Cultism and other Violent Behaviour Prohibition Order 2018 with effect from March 12, 2018. Governor Emmanuel said the security issues reported recently in Etim Ekpo, Ukanfun and Ikot Ekpene Local Government Areas of the state necessitated the security… March 13, 2018 In "News" Akwa Ibom State Commissioner of Police, Mr Samuel Adeyemi Ogunjemilusi, has warned the Police in the command against extorting money from commercial drivers as well as engaging in other criminal acts as culprits would face stiff sanction because their activities are damaging the image of Nigeria Police Force, NPF. March 8, 2018 In "News"