Borno State Governor, Babagana Umara Zulum on Tuesday gave an order for the recruitment of 40 medical doctors as an addition to his previous approvals, in order to meet health care needs of the state’s increasing population. Tuesday’s decision is coming four months after the Governor had approved the recruitment of 594 health workers, among them, 86 medical doctors, 365 nurses and midwives, 45 pharmacists and 100 health technicians and other support staff. Zulum announced his latest approval for 40 doctors after Tuesday’s meeting with the chief executives of seven public hospitals and related institutions located in Maiduguri Metropolitan Council and Jere Local Government Area. The meeting, held behind closed doors, centred on improving health care system and ensure effective, efficient and qualitative service delivery to the citizens in accordance with the policy thrust of the Zulum led administration. After the meeting, Governor Zulum undertook an assessment of the Specialist hospital and directed the construction of an additional ward to decongest the already overcrowded facility. The Governor also inspected a land acquired by Borno State Government, located opposite the Specialist hospital, which will be used for expansion of the hospital. Vanguard News Nigeria ...Okays annual course for 200 more ...To increase doctors, nurses quarters By Ndahi Marama - Maiduguri Governor Babagana Umara Zulum has approved the engagement of 84 medical doctors, 365 nurses and midwives, 45 pharmacists and 100 health technicians and other supportive staff, making 594 personnel being added to Borno’s healthcare… September 14, 2020 In "News" By Ndahi Marama - Maiduguri Borno State Governor, Professor Babagana Umara Zulum has approved the sum of N100 million as counterpart funding to the newly established Borno State Contributory Healthcare Management Agency (BOSCHMA). The approval of the sum was announced by the Governor when the Executive Director, National Primary Health… January 22, 2020 In "Health" By Ndahi Marama - Maiduguri Borno State Governor, Professor Babagana Umara Zulum on Monday night met families of policemen and civilian JTF volunteers ambushed on Friday while on their way to Baga as security backup. Zulum was at headquarters of Borno State police in Maiduguri where the bereaved families gathered… September 28, 2020 In "News"