A Nigerian stand-up Comedian, Atunyota Akpobome, popularly known as “Alibaba”, has urged Nigerians to be cautious and keep safe, saying COVID-19 pandemic is real. Akpobome, who claimed that he just survived the deadly virus, made the call on his Instagram page (alibabagcfr) on Monday. He, however, advised Nigerians to desist from describing COVID-19 pandemic as a scam. The comedian thanked Gov. Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State; Prof. Akin Abayomi, the Commissioner for Health, and other caregivers who worked tirelessly to keep him alive at the Yaba Isolation Centre, where he was quarantined. “COVID-19 is real. Don’t let anyone tell you it is a scam. I just came out of isolation, several people died, while I was there. “Some of my close friends know and they were very supportive. “I thank the Lagos State Governor, the Commissioner of Health, Managing Director of the COVID-19 Isolation Centre in Yaba, doctors, especially Dr Nifemi, who are risking their lives to keep us alive. Thanks also to the nurses. “COVID-19 is real. Observe all the protocols, people are dying, and it is not a joke. “In fact, anyone who says COVID-19 is a scam, is a compound idiot and a fool,” Alibaba wrote on his Instagram page. (NAN) Vanguard News Nigeria Nigerian comedian Atunyota Akpobome, popularly known as “Alibaba”, has decried the spread of the ravaging COVID-19 in the country. April 16, 2020 In "News" Perez Brisibe GOVERNOR Ifeanyi Okowa and his wife, Edith Okowa, have both tested positive to COVID-19. The Governor made the disclosure on his Facebook page on Wednesday morning. He said: "My wife and I have tested positive for COVID-19. We are well and continuing with our isolation/medication. We thank you… July 1, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" Delta State Government, yesterday raised the alarm over illegal entry of persons, suspected to be from the Northern part of Nigeria despite the interstate lockdown order of the Federal Government, aimed at containing the spread of the dreaded coronavirus pandemic in the country. May 19, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"