The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) has issued a Lassa fever Public health advisory to Nigerians. In the advisory, the Director-General, NCDC, Dr Chikwe Ihekweazu, said that people of all age groups who come in contact with the urine, faeces, saliva or blood of rats are at risk of getting Lassa fever. Others at risk, he said, are people living in rat-infested environments which increases their chances of coming in contact with rats and people who consume potentially contaminated foodstuff especially those left open over-night or dried outside in the open. Others, he said, are people who handle or process rodents for consumption and people who do not perform hand hygiene when appropriate. To reduce the risk of Lassa fever, Ihekweazu advised Nigerian to ensure proper environmental sanitation, keep their environment clean at all times and block all holes in homes to prevent rats from entry. “Cover your dustbins and dispose of refuse properly. Communities should setup dump sites very far from their homes to reduce the chances of having rodents within homes. “Store foodstuff like rice, garri, beans, corn/maize etc. containers which are well covered with tight-fitting lids. ”Avoid drying foodstuff outside on the floor, roadside where it will be exposed to contamination. Avoid bush burning which can lead to the displacement of rats from bushes to human dwellings. “Eliminate rats in homes and communities by setting rat traps and other means. Practice good personal hygiene by frequent washing hands with soap under running water /or use of hand sanitisers when appropriate. ”Visit the nearest health facility if you notice any of the signs and symptoms of Lassa fever as mentioned earlier, avoid self-medication,” he advised. The NCDC boss advised healthcare workers to practise standard precautions at all times: i.e. wearing gloves while handling patients or providing care to an ill patient and relative. He also called on healthcare workers to maintain a high index of suspicion for Lassa fever i.e. be vigilant and look out for signs and symptoms of Lassa fever. “Any febrile illness that has not responded to 48 hours use of anti-malaria or antibiotics should raise an index of suspicion for Lassa fever. ”Relatives who care for sick persons with unexplained illnesses at home, including doctors, nurses and other health workers providing direct patient care in the absence of standard precautions must be cautious. “To reduce the risk of Lassa fever, the hospital staff must clean and disinfect contaminated surfaces, materials and supplies with adequate protective gear,” he said. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the NCDC activated a National Emergency Operations Centre (EOC) with an inter-disciplinary, multi-partner technical team to ensure a well-coordinated response and swift control of Lassa fever outbreaks across affected states. Confirmed cases are being treated in the designated treatment centres in the affected states following an optimized standard of care protocols. Guidelines for appropriate case management and Infection Prevention and Control (IPC) measures have been disseminated to the different states. Vanguard News Nigeria The death toll from the latest round of Lassa fever outbreak in Nigeria has risen to 144, the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) said Thursday with a Case Fatality Rate (CFR), of 16.8 per cent. The NCDC said this is lower than the CFR for the same period in… March 12, 2020 In "Health" LASSA fever is on the rampage again in Nigeria, but there are simple steps that can be taken to prevent infection. Last week, the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, NCDC, confirmed 16 deaths in less than one month from Lassa fever outbreak in 10 states. January 30, 2018 In "Health" The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) says it has worked out modalities in response to the Lassa fever outbreaks across the country to strengthen rapid containment of the disease. Dr Chikwe Ihekweazu, the Director-General, NCDC, said this in an interview with News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), on Monday, in… February 24, 2020 In "Health"