For some of his peers, combining three jobs would be challenging but in MC Fantasy’s world, it appears to be a smooth ride switching from one commitment to another. From Lagos, Nigeria to the United States of America, MC Fantasy’s event hosting career is one that has crossed continents and is regarded by many American entertainment critics to be one of the most popular MCs in the country. Although his relocation to the United States was facilitated by his master’s degree admission to study Chemistry at Western Illinois University, he wasted no time in continuing a career that had won him accolades in his home country. “It requires hard work to be able to work on multiple fronts without one affecting the other but each of what I do is what I have passion for. I attend my pharmaceutical job on weekdays while I do event hosting during weekends. The times in between I dedicate to making skits which go on YouTube and Instagram,” the comedian added. Having already featured in ‘Guilty advice’ movie alongside the likes of Doris Simon, Boy Alinco, Femi Brainard, and Big Val, among others, MC revealed that entertainment lovers should expect to see more of him in films this year. Vanguard News Nigeria MC Chaz born Chiaz Ogbuh has been one of the success stories of Nigerians who distinguished themselves in showbiz. Once a high-flying pharmacist, he had abandoned his corporate career to become a full-time master of ceremonies and an actor. Looking back at his trajectory, he has no misgiving for his… August 19, 2019 In "News" Everyone who has ever attended an event will agree that the difference between an ordinary event and a memorable one is the quality the Master of Ceremony adds to the event. October 8, 2016 In "Woman" Mc Mouth Pizz is an enterprising young undergraduate of the University of Lagos, Yaba. As an up coming artiste, his love and gift in Dance, Music, Comedy and Acting gave rise to the establishment of an entertainment Troupe called Brave Word Entertainment. June 26, 2011 In "The Arts"