Head of Media and Publicity of Tinubu Support Group, TSG, Oluwatosin Johnson, Sunday, accused Karounwi Oladapo, the Southwest All Progressives Congress, APC, caretaker Zonal Publicity Secretary of being mischievous for saying Ekiti state governor, Kayode Fayemi is hugely favoured to get the 2023 APC ticket to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari. Oluwatosin in a statement made available to journalists stressed that the National Leader of APC, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu is currently focused on helping President Muhammadu Buhari to deliver on his campaign promises to Nigerians as a good party man. “Without sentiments, President Muhammadu Buhari is no doubt one of the greatest Presidents Nigeria ever had, yet he’s in his 70s. Saying Asiwaju will soon be 70 and too old for the exalted office of the President is foolish and myopic,” the statement read in part. According to him, the ” United States of America today elected a President full of energy to make their nation great again, and we are still here thinking the problem of Nigeria is the age of our leaders. President-elect Joe Biden is 78 years old”. “Look at Lagos today. It’s a state everyone is proud to be identified with. This is happening because of the developmental blueprint made available by Asiwaju. ” I will advise him to be a good party man and stop all his antics to divide our great party,” Oluwatosin said. Vanguard News Nigeria THE spat between the All Progressives Congress, APC, National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, and Senate President, Bukola Saraki, got messier, yesterday, with Senator Saraki accusing Tinubu of attacking him because he opposed his proposed Muslim-Muslim ticket with President Muhammadu Buhari for the 2015 presidential election. August 21, 2018 In "Headlines" By Rotimi Ojomoyela, Ado Ekiti Hon Karounwi Oladapo, a former Deputy Speaker of Ekiti State House of Assembly and incumbent Caretaker Zonal Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in South-West, speaks on rumoured presidential ambition of Governor Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State ahead of 2023. Why the clamour… January 17, 2021 In "News" Babachir Lawal, former secretary to the government of the federation, has said that after 2023, President Muhammadu Buhari would retire to Daura, to tend to his cows, praying to see Buhari’s legacy. October 19, 2019 In "News"