In a bid to add aesthetic values to schools and rid them of miscreants, the Ekiti State government has begun the demolition of dilapidated and substandard structures in 532 primary schools across the State. This, according to the government would allow for the beautification programme of Governor Kayode Fayemi-led administration and efforts to boost pupils and teachers’ performances at the primary cadre. The government also warned about 1,000 new primary school teachers employed by Fayemi’s government to refrain from certificate and age falsifications, saying whoever was apprehended for such crime would be dismissed. The Chairman of State Universal Basic Education Board(SUBEB), Prof Femi Akinwumi, spoke in Ado Ekiti, on Monday, while flagging off the demolition exercise at Mount Mary Nursery/Primary School, Oke Ila, Ado Ekiti. Akinwumi said the exercise was specifically conceptualised by Fayemi’s government to give way for the construction of new buildings across the primary schools in the state. The SUBEB boss added that some of the structures were built during the pre-colonial days dating back to 1920, making them out-fashioned for the contemporary time. “Under this programme, all mud and substandard blocks must go down. We have to checkmate all the miscreants that are using those dilapidated buildings in all our primary schools as hideouts because we are aware some people used these places as abode. “Presently, we are training about 761 new teachers, which was a follow up to over 2,700 teachers that had been trained in 2020. We are giving a conducive environment and really enhancing the capacities of our personnel. “As professionals, we knew the importance and role good environments play in performances. It is a good variable in the performances of students in any examination. “With this demolition and construction of new buildings, pupils can move around and enjoy the aesthetic environment we are going to provide without fear of attacks by hoodlums. They will also enjoy the beauty”. The SUBEB boss commended the Universal Basic Education Commission (UBEC) for collaborating to uplift basic education in Ekiti , particularly with the payment of N7.6 billion counterpart funding by the state government. Vanguard News Nigeria The John Kayode Fayemi (JKF) Centre, a leadership organisation founded by Ekiti governor-elect, Dr Kayode Fayemi, says the on-going recruitment exercise by the Ayo Fayose administration is illegal. August 23, 2018 In "News" In a bid to motivate teachers towards improving the education sector,Ekiti State Government has disbursed about N282.6million as car and housing loans to teaching and non_teaching staff of public schools in the state. April 21, 2011 In "Education" Ekiti State Governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi, has warned that henceforth, government will arrest parents of pupils found hawking during school hours; stressing that parents must take advantage of the free education policy of his government to reduce the number of out-of-school children. January 27, 2019 In "News"