Unknown gunmen have again invaded the riverside town of Peremabiri in Southern Ijaw Local Government Area of Bayelsa State destroying properties worth millions of naira. The attack which was launched in the early of Sunday sources told Vanguard is the latest in the series of attack on selected targets in the predominantly fishing and farming settlement. Though the motive for the attack could not be immediately ascertained, the heavily armed invaders were said to have stormed the community in about five speedboats and embarked on shooting spree causing residents to scamper for safety. The residence of one Marcus Richard was reportedly set ablaze. It would be recalled that some yet to be identified gunmen had also in the early hours of Christmas day attacked the residence of a former militant leader, Eris Paul, alias Ogunboss, in Peremabiri and razed down his palatial mansion. .”As I speak with you many people are still hiding in the bush and houses have been burnt down,” a community source said Contacted, Spokesman of the Bayelsa Police Command, Mr Butswat Ansimi confirmed the incident. He said,: “preliminary investigations revealed that on 3rd January 2021 at about 0700 hours unknown gunmen invaded Peremabiri, a riverine community in Southern Ijaw Local Government Area. “The motive for the attack is unknown at the moment, however the residence of one Marcus Richard was set ablaze. “The Command has despatched reinforcement of Police Marine and detectives from State Criminal Investigation Department to beef up security in the area. Investigation into the incident is ongoing. “Efforts are on by the State government to invite notable leaders from the community for a peace meeting.” Vanguard News Nigeria Barely 24 hours after armed gunmen launched a vicious attack on the Amassoma branch of the United Bank For Africa, UBA, in the Southern Ijaw council area of Bayelsa State in which five persons, including two policemen and an eight months old baby lost their lives, an unknown gunmen struck… February 25, 2010 In "News" A community youth leader identified as Morris Jonathan has been shot dead by unknown gunmen in Akenpai suburb of Yenagoa, the Bayelsa state capital. January 21, 2014 In "News" Suspected armed hoodlums, yesterday, launched attack on the Opokuma country home of the Bayelsa State Commissioner for Local Government and Community Development, Mr. Waripamowei Dudafa, in the Kolokuma-Opokuma Local Government Area of Bayelsa State. September 23, 2010 In "News"