THE house belonging to the Yoruba freedom fighter, Chief Sunday Adeyemo aka Igboho has been set ablaze by unknown arsonists. Vanguard gathered that the arsonists, on arrival at Igboho’s residence at Soka fired gunshots sporadically before setting it ablaze. This happened just five days after Igboho made good his promise that he would ensure no Fulani herders remained in Ibarapa. A source close to Igboho said the arsonists stormed his old house around 3 am thinking he was around. On his Twitter handle, Igboho wrote, “This happened at about 1 am today. They thought I was still in the house. I am safe and sound my people. You can’t kill a breeze. In 48hours the attacker would be revealed and would run mad. I have spoken”. Confirming the incident, the Oyo State Police Command through its Police Public Relations Officer CSP Gbenga Fadeyi said, “At about 0620 hours of today 26/01/2021, a report was received at Sanyo Police Station that some unidentified hoodlums came to Sunday Igboho’s house at Soka area of Ibadan in a Hummer bus and Micra firing sporadically and set the house ablaze.” “The mini sitting room got burnt in the process while the amount of other properties is yet to be estimated.” “Immediately the DPO Sanyo got wind of the incident, he contacted Fire service while he also went to the scene for on the spot assessment”. “The fire was eventually put out. An investigation has commenced into the incident while the Police is on the trail of the hoodlums.” Many sympathisers thronged the scene raining curses on whosoever carried out the arson. Vanguard News Nigeria Acclaimed Yoruba activist and freedom fighter, Chief Sunday Adeyemo is popularly known as 'Sunday Ighoho,' has challenged Senator Babafemi Ojudu to bring evidence of his claims in his write up where he said he was hired as a political thug for All Progressives Congress (APC) leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu. January 26, 2021 In "News" Nigerian politician and businessman, Chief Sunday Adeyemo famously known as Sunday Igboho has distanced himself from all criminal acts and having any relationship with suspected assassin, Adeola Williams, famously known as Ade Lawyer. March 7, 2018 In "News" Foremost Nigerian political critic and a former aviation minister, Chief Olufemi Fani-Kayode has warned the Nigerian inspector general of police and the presidency against arresting the Yoruba freedom fighter, Sunday Igboho, over a quit notice he issued to kidnappers and bandits operating in Ibarapa, Oyo State. January 23, 2021 In "News"