Akwa Ibom Chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party in Akwa Ibom State has officially announced the death of its chairman Obong Udo Ekpenyong. Publicity Secretary, Borono Bassey in a statement said the party is saddened by his demise He quoted the deceased’s physicians, as saying that he died in the early hours of Tuesday, January 19, 2021, from complications traceable to the novel Covid-19 virus. The statement added, “Obong Udo Ekpenyong who assumed office as the 6th State Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party in Akwa Ibom State was the immediate past Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, Akwa Ibom State and a former member of the National Executive Committee of our Party. “He was also a former Political Adviser to Governor Victor Attah as well as a one time Chairman of Ukanafun Local Government Area. “Our Party, the PDP has been thrown into unimaginable fried by the news of his passing even as we condole with the bereaved family. “We are confident that God Almighty who is the source of all comfort will grant us the grace to bear this tragic loss. ” Vanguard News Nigeria ...As Stakeholders, Members Laud Party's Proactive Move By James Aity/AK Kingsley Following the creation of additional wards in Akwa Ibom State by the Akwa Ibom State Independent Electoral Commission,(AKISIEC), the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Akwa Ibom has conducted special elective congresses to constitute a new executive committee and fill… October 4, 2020 In "News" ... Tasks new Party Leadership on Dedication, Loyalty Governor Udom Emmanuel, the Akwa Ibom State leader of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, has said that his party is a model to be emulated by all others across Nigeria. The governor made the remark at the state-owned international stadium, Nest of… July 31, 2020 In "Politics" The Akwa Ibom State Chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), has geared up efforts in preparation for the October local government elections. On Saturday, August 14, the party concluded its two-day screening exercise for over 450 councillorship aspirants and over 70 chairmanship aspirants across all 368 wards in the… August 17, 2020 In "News"