The World Health Organisation, WHO has recommended the use of the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine as African countries gear up in earnest to begin rollout of COVID-19 vaccines. Africa marked the move from planning to action in the rollout of COVID-19 vaccines at a WHO-hosted African Health Ministers meeting as a rapid vaccine rollout is expected in the wake of the WHO listing of two versions of the AstraZeneca-Oxford COVID-19 vaccine for emergency use. The WHO Regional Director for Africa. Dr Matshidiso Moeti, who gave the indication, said Africa is revving up to rollout COVID-19 vaccines. Moeti who spoke while briefing Health Ministers on the region’s overall state of readiness for Africa’s largest-ever immunisation drive said the priority was the protection of the vulnerable groups. “It is strongly recommended for countries to use the AstraZeneca vaccine even if the SARS-CoV-2 new variants are present. A small South African study has found the vaccine was not very effective against mild and moderate cases infected with the 501Y.V2 variant. “After a review of all available data, the WHO Strategic Advisory Group of Experts concluded that ongoing research suggests that the AstraZeneca vaccine is likely to protect people against severe COVID-19. However, this remains to be demonstrated in clinical trials and post-implementation evaluation. “Our priority must be to protect the most vulnerable from severe illness and death. Along with rolling out safe and proven vaccines, we must also work towards a diverse vaccine portfolio. At the same time, manufacturers must be prepared to adjust to mutations of the virus, including potentially providing booster shots and adapted vaccines,” said Moeti. The WHO Regional Director noted that thorough vaccine preparation plans will help ensure African countries can hit the ground running in quickly immunising the most vulnerable people. Meticulous planning is key to ensuring vaccines reach all priority groups, wherever they are, in every single African country. Moeti briefed the Health Ministers on the region’s overall state of readiness for Africa’s largest-ever immunisation drive, planned vaccines delivery dates and next steps, including documentation required by COVAX related to regulatory readiness, indemnity and liability agreements so vaccine manufacturers can schedule shipment dates. In a significant step forward for the African region, national deployment and vaccination plans for COVID-19 vaccines from 35 low-income African countries eligible for free vaccines from the COVAX Facility have been accepted by an independent regional review committee. The plans are required for countries to receive vaccines from COVAX, the global initiative to ensure fair access to COVID-19 vaccines led by WHO, Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, and The Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI). While the regional committee of over 100 experts from six leading global public health bodies certified the deployment plans, it called for more work on setting up systems to manage the logistics and supply chain for vaccines, reaching refugees, migrants and internally displaced people and financing national vaccination campaigns. Also speaking, Managing Director, Country Programmes, GAVI, Thabani Maphosa, remarked: “COVAX is open for business. Thanks to secured avenues of supply through manufacturer deals and dose-sharing, clarity on global and regional supply forecasts, additional much-needed funding, and countries’ hard work to ensure readiness – the world now has its clearest pathway yet to ending the acute stage of this pandemic, globally.” The move to roll out COVID-19 vaccines comes as new evidence shows new variants of the coronavirus are spreading across the continent. In all the countries that have detected the new variants, the pandemic is spreading faster in the second wave than in the first one. Variant 501Y.V2 (B1.35) first identified in South Africa is predominant in South Africa and Zambia and has been detected in a total of nine African nations including Botswana, Comoros, Ghana, Kenya, Mozambique, South Africa, Tanzania, Zambia and Zimbabwe. The VOC202012/01variant (B.1.1.7) first detected in the United Kingdom has been found in Nigeria, Gambia, Ghana, Morocco, Senegal, and South Africa. Vanguard News Nigeria The World Health Organisation (WHO) says Africa is getting ready to rollout COVID-19 vaccines as WHO hosted the African Health Ministers and deliberated on necessary steps to achieve the feat. February 18, 2021 In "Health" By Sola Ogundipe The World Health Organisation has officially recommended the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine for people over the age of 65 saying it should be used without upper age limit. The call came after WHO experts reviewed evidence from studies of the vaccine and reported there is no reason it shouldn't… February 10, 2021 In "Health" …Says latest 16m doses allocation of AstraZeneca type cancels initial promise of 100,000 doses By Sola Ogundipe, Chioma Obinna & Joseph Erunke THE World Health Organisation, WHO, has confirmed that Nigeria will receive 16 million doses of the AstraZeneca/Oxford COVID-19 vaccines out of the 88 million doses allocated to Africa… February 7, 2021 In "Health"