It was an evening of fun, music and games last Friday, as Nigerian singer Adekunle Gold thrilled fans at the Unity Bank Live concert. The bank made history by being the first commercial bank in Nigeria to host a virtual music concert. The event which was held on the bank’s official Instagram page was hosted by Comedian Mr Hyenana and featured several entertainment acts including Khell Magic, TFS dance crew, the 79th Element among others. “At Unity Bank, our resolve is to continue to create initiatives that will enable us to always reinforce Nigeria’s unity. This virtual concert, therefore, reaffirms that resolve and commitment. Also, at a time the global pandemic has disrupted normal life, we feel that an activity like this can help uplift spirits and spread joy in the midst of uncertainty” DeVoe Okorie, Head, Corporate Communications, Unity Bank Plc said. The bank rewarded loyal customers, giving them a chance to win their share of 1 million naira worth of cash prizes by participating in a trivia. Winners from the UnityBankJinglechallenge who created their own unique covers to the original tune sang by Adekunle Gold, also performed at the show. The challenge produced five winners including the duo of Oyatoki Omolola and Olaoluwa Bayonle Emmanuel who delivered the jingle in a sign language. The other four winners were all upcoming artists who used the opportunity to promote their talents and interact with the brand ambassador -Adekunle Gold. Vanguard News Nigeria For the Nigerian music industry 2017 resonated with series of melodramatic dynamics which eventually culminated in what could be described as a fun year. And as it wraps up Showtime recalls with nostalgic feelings artiste concerts that rocked the industry. December 30, 2017 In "Music" Abuja, the Nigerian capital, will witness yet another phase of entertainment glamour on August 7th, 2016, as Yankee entertainment boss and Chairman, the Bank Club, unveils Abuja music fiesta. The event which has been scheduled to hold at the prestigious Transcorp Hilton, Abuja, will be graced by A-lists musical artists… July 23, 2016 In "Entertainment" Come  February 18, 2018, three of Nigeria’s finest singers cum live music performers, Simi, Adekunle Gold and Praiz, will headline a live music concert tagged ‘100% Live’, a music experience which will go down in history as one of the biggest outdoor music concerts ever. February 3, 2018 In "Entertainment"