Ahead of its proposed conference on security, the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, has called on the United States of America and other members of the international community to prevail on President Muhammadu Buhari to take decisive steps to protect Nigerians and curb escalated violence, terrorism and banditry ravaging many parts of the country. The party also tasked President Buhari to respond to a widespread cry for credible elections in the land by making a personal commitment towards an accelerated amendment to the Electoral Act, to among other things, “give statutory force to simultaneous electronic transmission of results and use of card readers in elections.” PDP National Chairman, Prince Uche Secondus, presented made this known at a crucial meeting with the political officer with the United States Embassy in Nigeria, Mr Jerry Howard, at the PDP national secretariat, Abuja on Tuesday. Prince Secondus decried the horrible level of insecurity; increased terrorism, wanton killings and kidnapping in the country with the Buhari administration failing to demonstrate the capacity to protect the citizens. “Every day, our nation is confronted with reports of gruesome killings, kidnapping and unrestrained destruction across all parts of our country. As a party and patriotic citizens, we can no longer continue to watch. That is why we are putting together a non-partisan conference on security,” he said. The PDP chairman also expressed anxiety over an impending food crisis in our country if the security situation, which has crippled agricultural and economic activities, is not addressed. On electoral reforms, the PDP expressed worry that Nigerians have lost interest in the nation’s electoral system due to “the manipulations being witnessed under the All Progressives Congress, APC-led administration” and urged President Buhari to leave a legacy of credible elections by ensuring accelerated amendment to the Electoral Act. Prince Secondus insisted that such amendment must ensure a “legal backing for use of card readers for elections as well as the electronic transmission of results, as witnessed in the 2020 Edo governorship election.” Stating that the PDP is the only hope to restore peace, national cohesiveness and save Nigeria from collapse, Secondus stressed that the party will remain steadfast in its ideals adding that the PDP will never change its name or any of its identity. “we will not change our brand. Our strength is in our name, the PDP, and we are not in any contemplation of changing our name. It does not matter how many times other parties changed their names. Our name remains the PDP,” he added. Earlier at the meeting, Howard had assured of the continued support of the United States towards deepening democratic practice in Nigeria. Vanguard News Nigeria ABUJA- National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Prince Uche Secondus has called on President Muhammadu Buhari to prevail on the Independent National Electoral Commission,  INEC,  and the security agencies to stay neutral and stick to their statutory mandates in the conduct of the 2019 general elections. December 7, 2018 In "News" The Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, yesterday, reported President Muhammadu Buhari to the United Nations, UN, over alleged plots by the Presidency and the All Progressives Congress, APC, to scuttle the 2019 general elections, particularly, the presidential poll. November 24, 2018 In "News" FOR the third time in 49 days, the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, yesterday, took its complaints over alleged plots of President Muhammadu Buhari, the ruling All Progressives Congress, APC, in connivance with the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC , and the security agencies to rig the 2019 polls, to the… January 12, 2019 In "News"