 Notore Chemical Industry Plc, a fertilizer and agro-allied company, has intensified efforts on its Turnaround Maintenance (TAM) programme to achieve nameplate capacity of 500,000mtpa and boost profitability from 2021. The company has fixed March 8, 2021 as the completion date for the exercise which is expected to significantly increase its current production volumes, revenue, and operating cash flows. Group Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Notore Chemical Industries Plc, Mr. Onajite Okoloko, disclosed this in the company’s unaudited results for the first quarter ended on December 31, 2020. He also said Notore recorded revenue of N3.57 billion in the first quarter of 2021. On the status and merits of the TAM programme, Okoloko said, “The programme is expected to be completed by 8 March 2021, barring any further interruptions occasioned by the global COVID-19 pandemic emergency. The TAM is a critical activity required to improve the plant reliability and increase production output to meet and sustain its 500,000MT per annum nameplate design capacity. “Once completed, we expect significant improvement in the plant’s reliability and production output to meet and sustain its 500,000MT per annum nameplate design capacity.   Achieving this level of production output will not only lead to significant improvements in the Company’s cash flows from operations, but also significant increases in revenues annually post-TAM.” He added: “Our business has been faced with many challenges over the past years.   However, Notore has indeed achieved several vital milestones to reposition the company for a great future.   As we look to the future post-TAM, the next phase of Notore’s growth will be focused on diversification, optimization, and profitability.” Noting that the company is aggressively pursuing its diversification programme in seed and rice production, he said, “Sale of Notore seeds to Nigerian farmers has also continued in furtherance of our corporate vision to be a major contributor to the development of Africa.   Additionally, while leveraging the Company’s seeds business, robust supply chain and distribution network, Notore intends to expand further into other products such as rice production.” Following the Federal Government’s effort to boost the economy through its various policies reforms to attract both local and international investors, more companies have been admonished to take advantage of these reforms initiatives to list on the Nigerian Stock Exchange in order to boost the depth and liquidity in the… August 20, 2018 In "Business" Despite the growth in operating profit, Notore Chemical Industries Plc has ended the first half, H1 2019 with a loss of N1.942 billion due to its net finance cost of N6.57 billion. May 1, 2019 In "Business" NOTORE Chemical Industries Plc has announced revenue of N26.8 billion for the year ended September 30, 2018, compared with N35.894 billion in 2017. January 2, 2019 In "Business"