Twelve opposition parties in Chad say they will field a joint candidate against Idriss Deby Itno, who has been in power for 30 years, in upcoming presidential elections. Deby is expected to be named by his Patriotic Salvation Movement (MPS) party on Saturday as its flag-bearer in the April 11 vote. Leaders of 12 parties on Tuesday signed a deal creating an electoral coalition called Alliance Victoire (Victory Alliance). Its manifesto sets down a joint approach for government, a code of conduct and “the criteria for appointing a single candidate on a transparent and consensual basis.” Signatories include two prominent opposition figures — Saleh Kebzabo, the runner-up in the 2016 elections with 12.8 percent of the vote, and Mahamat Ahmat Alabo. The manifesto says other opposition parties can join, although it does not set a date for when the single candidate will be named. The alliance’s coordinator, Alladoumngar Tedengarti, said “the lesson has been learned” from 30 years of elections in which Deby has been able to cruise past a fragmented opposition. Other leaders who have yet to join include Laokein Kourayo Medar, who placed third in 2016, and Succes Masra, whose campaign group, The Transformers, has joined with NGOs to announce protests to coincide with the MPS announcement. The demonstrations, set to run daily from Thursday to Sunday, have been banned by the authorities on the grounds that they have “the potential to provoke public disorder”. Deby, a 68-year-old former army chief, has been in power since December 1990, when he ousted the autocratic Hissene Habre. He has been re-elected every five years since then, thanks to constitutional changes approved by a referendum in 2005 to remove limits on presidential terms. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria Chad's President Idriss Deby is set to be sworn in Monday for a fifth term in power, facing persistent resistance from an opposition that alleges his re-election was a "political hold-up". August 8, 2016 In "News" In the dry searing heat of Chad's capital N'Djamena, a single face stares out from election campaign billboards, President Idriss Deby's, though 14 candidates are running in Sunday's presidential poll. April 8, 2016 In "News" DRAMA is when the President of a country boycotts the elections being conducted by his government. This week, it was the turn of Sao Tome and Principe to re-enact that play which was last staged by the over-rated and over-indulged former Malawian President, Joyce Banda. Manuel Pinto da Costa was… August 12, 2016 In "Owei Lakemfa"