Suspected armed bandits raided a school dormitory in Zamfara overnight, a teacher and parent told AFP on Friday, raising fears of another mass kidnapping in the Northern region. Bandits kidnap schoolgirls in Jangebe, Zamfara “More than 300 girls are unaccounted for after a headcount of remaining students,” said a teacher at the Government Girls Secondary School Jangebe who asked to remain anonymous. He said the attack happened around 1:00 am (midnight GMT) but did not provide details on the number of students present in the school at the time. Heavily-armed criminal gangs in northwest and central Nigeria have stepped up attacks in recent years, kidnapping for ransom, raping and pillaging. Just last week, 42 people were taken by a gang from a school in nearby Niger state. In December, more than 300 boys were kidnapped from a school in December in Kankara, President Muhammadu Buhari’s home state of Katsina, while he was visiting the region. The boys were later released but the incident triggered outrage and memories of the kidnappings of schoolgirls by jihadists in Dapchi and Chibok that shocked the world. A parent told AFP he had received a call about the latest incident in Zamfara. “I’m on my way to Jangebe. I received a call that the school was invaded by bandits who took away schoolgirls. I have two daughters in the school,” said Sadi Kawaye. Police have not yet confirmed the incident. Northwest and central Nigeria have increasingly become a hub for large criminal gangs who raid villages, killing and abducting residents after looting and torching homes. Bandits operate out of camps in Rugu forest, which straddles Zamfara, Katsina, Kaduna and Niger states. Nigerian armed forces have been deployed there but attacks and mass kidnappings persist. The gangs are largely driven by financial motives and have no known ideological leanings. But there are concerns they are being infiltrated by jihadists. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria Boko Haram recruited three local gangs in to kidnap hundreds of schoolboys on its behalf in Katsina, security and local sources said Wednesday. The jihadist group has claimed responsibility for Friday's attack, which targeted a secondary school in the town of Kankara, in Katsina state. But sources told AFP the… December 16, 2020 In "Metro" A criminal gang leader behind the kidnapping of hundreds of schoolchildren in northwest Katsina state in December has surrendered to authorities in an amnesty deal, officials said on Tuesday. Auwalun Daudawa led dozens of gunmen who snatched students from their school hostels in the town of Kankara in a crime… February 9, 2021 In "Metro" WHAT could have resulted in a repeat of the Chibok and Dapchi school girls’ abductions was averted in Zamfara State on Wednesday night when bandits stormed Government Girls Comprehensive Secondary School, Moriki in Zurmi Local Council of Zamfara State. May 3, 2019 In "Headlines"