Chief Owolabi Salis, 2019 governorship candidate of the Alliance for Democracy, AD, Lagos State, has said late Pa Lateef Jakande lived the democracy other leaders in the county preach but do not practise. Salis, in a statement from the U.S. on Friday, said Pa Jakande, the first civilian governor of Lagos State and former Minister for Works and Housing, was “a faithful and true governor of the people by the people and for the people.” According to Salis, “I contested in the governorship election of Lagos State on the platform of Alhaji Lateef Jakande-led Action Party of Nigeria, APN, in 2007 after being disqualified by Peoples Democratic Party, PDP. “Baba and I, many times, have sat down discussing the poor people— how to upgrade them. “It was so painful then that the people were unable to back his party because they did not understand that he wanted to continue with services to humanity through the party. “He has lived a great and good life and gave the people the true dividends of democracy that most leaders promise on paper, but never practised in deed.” He urged Nigerian leaders to emulate the humanitarian services of late Jakande and prayed for the repose of his soul. Salis also condoled with Jakande’s immediate family and prayed to God to give them the fortitude to bear the loss, adding “May Eledumare grant him eternal rest.” Vanguard News Nigeria THE Lagos State Alliance for Democracy, AD, governorship candidate,  HIGH Chief Owolabi Salis has said the coming election is the opportunity for Lagosians to speak up for a true megacity and governance based on welfare for all across ethnic, religious and political divides. February 13, 2019 In "Politics" For the fourth time, the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP is squaring up to upturn its second place position in the politics of Nigeria’s socio-political hub, Lagos. September 30, 2014 In "Politics" TWO socio-cultural organisations, Ikorodu-Oga Development Association, IKODASS, and Association of Akwa-Cross Indigenes, have honoured High Chief Owolabi Salis, Lagos State governorship candidate of Alliance for Democracy, AD. November 19, 2018 In "News"