The Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), Lagos State Council has named its Light House in Victoria Island, Lagos after the first Civilian Governor of Lagos State, Late Lateef Kayode Jakande. The Light House Land was donated to NUJ Lagos Council by Jakande who was the sitting governor of Lagos State between 1979 and 1983. The announcement was made at the residence of the elder statesman in Lagos on Thursday when the Executive members of NUJ Lagos Council led by the Chairman Mr.Adeleye Ajayi paid a condolence visit to the family of the deceased. Ajayi described Jakande as a lover of journalists who donated the land used in building Lighthouse, which today remains a revenue source being used in running the affairs of members of NUJ. He commended his foresight for donating the land used in building the edifice for the union. Ajayi also commended the role played by the Late Jakande in the areas of education and providing shelter for the masses. “The house and schools he built are still standing firm up till today. “The media community will.miss Alhaji Jakande. ” May God rests his gentle soul,” he said. Jakande attained giant strides in the area of Education as well as Housing, amongst other numerous achievements. He will be missed by many Nigerians particularly in Lagos State for his selfless leadership style. “He is gone, but his legacies live on,” Ajayi stated. Vanguard News Nigeria The Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), Lagos Chapter, on Thursday mourned the demise of Lagos state's first civilian governor, Alhaji Lateef Kayode Jakande. Jakande who died at the age of 91 according to the Union was "an erudite journalist, publisher, administrator par excellence and a political giant". A press statement… February 11, 2021 In "News" Malam Mohammed Garba, National President, Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) has said that the body would source for N1 billion to construct a befitting National Secretariat. June 12, 2011 In "News" A former Governor of Ogun, Chief Olusegun Osoba, has said that journalism is on the brink of extinction due to the advent of the new media. April 16, 2016 In "News"