The Speaker of Borno State House of Assembly, Rt Hon Abdulkarim Lawan, on Monday, faulted claims made by Minister of Information, Lai Mohammed and the immediate past Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) Gen Gabriel Olonisakin that all the 27 Local Government Areas in the state have been liberated from the hands of Boko Haram sect and fully under the control of Military Troops. Lawan said that the entire Guzamala Local Government Area where he hails from is still under the control of Boko Haram sect. He said, “there is no single existence of civil life in Guzamala, not to even talk of Military presence in the Council Headquarter and its surrounding communities, that are not dominated by armed Boko Haram Fighters.” Lawan was speaking at Guzamala Concerned Stakeholders’ Meeting in Maiduguri and their continued stay in resettlement camps and other host communities for several years. He said, although, he has been agitating for military presence in Guzamala to enable his displaced people take the advantage of Governor Babagana Zulum’s move in Reconstruction and Resettlement, but to no avail, as Guzamala is still a ‘no go area’. He said even as Speaker who has been reelected for four consecutive times representing Guzamala, he has spent over three years without stepping into Guzamala, and wondered why the Federal Government Officials who were busy staying at their comfort in Abuja would fabricate lies in telling the general public that all local government areas in Borno are safe. “We have a total of 774 Local Government areas in Nigeria, we in Guzamala Council want the Federal Government to tell us whether Guzalama has been cancelled out of the 774 so that we can know our position and look for a better option”. Lawan stated. He said even in the whole of the 10 Local Government Areas in the entire Northern Borno, lives only exists in the nine (9) Council Headquarters, but not in wards or villages, as most people from Northern Borno including their Imams, Traditional Rulers and stakeholders resides in Maiduguri and other host communities. The Speaker, however, appealed to the new service chiefs led by the Chief of Defence Staff, Gen Leo Irabor to put in their best restore civil presence in Guzamala and its surrounding communities so that his people will go back and resettle continue their normal lives. Vanguard News Nigeria The Speaker, Borno House of Assembly, Alhaji Abdulkareem Lawan, has commended the Nigerian Army for the successes so far recorded in the war against Boko Haram and restoration of peace to the North-East. July 1, 2018 In "News" Chairman, Conference of Speakers of State Houses of Assembly, in Nigeria and Speaker, Borno State House of Assembly, Abdulkarim Lawan, has said only one local government is yet to be liberated from the Boko Haram insurgents in Borno State out the 20 local government areas earlier occupied. November 27, 2015 In "News" By Ndahi Marama Borno State Governor, Babagana Umara Zulum is saddened by the killing of security personnel made up of civilian JTF members ambushed on their way to Baga as security backup in reconstruction efforts. Baga town was displaced by the Boko Haram insurgents 21 months ago, with most of… September 26, 2020 In "News"