Bandits have devised a new strategy of attacking their unsuspecting victims in Niger State as a gang of Gunmen reportedly attacked and killed a Police Inspector from the top of a tree and injured three other policemen. It was gathered that the policemen drafted to protect travellers along Minna-Suleja road were attacked Tuesday evening at Kaffinkoro junction on the busy highway. The policemen were said to be standing patrolling the highway when the bandits pumped bullets on them from the top of a tree, leaving the Inspector dead and injuring three others. The name of the deceased Inspector, who has since been buried according to Islamic rites, was given as Mohammed Mohammed, while the injured policemen were rushed to the IBB Specialist hospital, Minna by good Samaritans. An uncle of the diseased Inspector and former Speaker of Niger State House of Assembly, Ndanusa Hassan, confirmed that the deceased was buried yesterday. Tension as bandits invade Lapai community It was also gathered that a middle-aged man was abducted while two others sustained injuries when armed men raided Ebbo communities in Lapai Local Government Area of the state. An eyewitness said the over 10 armed men that invaded the community, Tuesday night, shot sporadically to scare the residents and succeeded in abducting a sales boy of a popular mobile telephone shop while two others were injured during the invasion. It was gathered that the target of the gunmen was the owner of the shop, one Malam Abu Magaji, who was said to have retired home, but his sales boy, Sule Isah, was abducted. Public Relations Officer of the state Police Command,  Wasiu Abiodun, when contacted on phone to confirm the stories. Vanguard News Nigeria *5 policemen killed by bandits in Kaduna; No, it’s 4 — Police *Ward head, 80-yr old woman, others also killed in Kaduna *Soldier, 5 civilians dead, others injured during clash in Maiduguri *Late Gana’s loyalists attack Benue community, kill 3, raze houses *Military arrests two, recovers weaponslBakassi cult war claims… January 18, 2021 In "News" By Wole Mosadomi - Minna Armed bandits have kidnapped fourteen people in Niger state and also killed a mobile policeman and injured another in the Mariga local government area of Niger state. The incidence occurred on Wednesday. Vanguard correspondent reliably gathered that the injured policeman was immediately rushed to the… November 19, 2020 In "Metro" Unknown gunmen on a motorcycle, yesterday, killed two police officers in Kano State and injured two others in what appears to be renewed attack in the city that witnessed the worst attack by Boko Haram on January 20, when no fewer that 186 people were killed. February 24, 2012 In "News"