The Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, has taken a swipe at the All Progressives Congress, APC, leadership in the Senate for “betraying Nigerians” by clearing former services chiefs for ambassadorial portfolios despite allegation of crime against humanity committed under their command. The party however insisted that the clearance will not stop the investigation and possible prosecution of the accused commanders by the International Criminal Court, ICC, for crime against humanity, with preliminary steps to have been initiated. In a statement issued by Kola Ologbondiyan, national public secretary of the party, the PDP described as horrendous the fact that the APC leadership in the Senate “could choose to betray Nigerians by rushing to clear the accused ex-service chiefs in a desperate attempt to grant them diplomatic immunity and shield them from investigation and prosecution for the atrocities committed against Nigerians under their command.” The statement continued: “Though it is public knowledge that the current APC Senate leadership is a mere rubber stamp and contrivance being used to endorse atrocious policies and suppress the will of the people, but descending to the level of aiding and abetting crime against humanity by attempting to confer diplomatic immunity on the accused ex-commanders is, to say the least, despicable. “It is indeed shameful that the APC leadership in the Senate could clear the ex-service chiefs, who the National Assembly had earlier indicted and requested for their sack over security failures and alleged compromises. Such reward of failure amounts to stabbing our nation in the back. “The PDP cautions the APC leadership in the Senate that such decision has painted the entire National Assembly in a bad light before Nigerians and the international community. “Already, the development is pitching the Senate against the majority of Nigerians, particularly the victims of acts of terrorism as well as those of the reported extra-judicial killings, arbitrary arrests, illegal detentions in dehumanizing camps, massacre of peaceful protesters, torture, rape and other atrocities allegedly committed under the ex-commanders, as detailed in the reports of credible international bodies including the United States Department of State, Amnesty International, AI, and Transparency International, TI.” It commended lawmakers elected on its platform for rejecting the clearance of the ex-service chiefs as ambassadors and urged them not to relent in taking legislative steps to ensure their recall. Vanguard News Nigeria By Dirisu Yakubu The Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Wednesday called on the International Criminal Court, ICC, to commence the investigation of the tenure of Nigeria’s immediate past service chiefs over reported atrocities and crimes against humanity committed by security operatives under their command.  The PDP also calls on International Police,… January 27, 2021 In "News" Number one bestselling author and former aide to ex-president Goodluck Jonathan, Pastor Reno Omokri, has urged the Nigerian senate not to confirm the ambassadorial nomination of ex service chiefs as presented by President Muhammadu Buhari. According to him, the ex service chiefs ought to be probed over the death of… February 5, 2021 In "News" *Says Buhari is rewarding hard work, exceptional sacrifice By Johnbosco Agbakwuru The Presidency on Saturday took a swipe at the opposition Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, for criticising the nomination of former Service Chiefs for non-career ambassadorial positions by President Muhammadu Buhari. The Presidency said it would have been understandable if… February 6, 2021 In "Politics"