  The Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria, PSN, has thrown its weight behind the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine saying say that the jab can still be useful for most Nigerians who need protection against the major COVID-19 variants.  The PSN President, Mazi Sam Ohuabunwa, who spoke in the wake of concerns over the vaccine having reduced efficacy on the South African variant,  said Nigeria should stop debating vaccines and settle for one that is suitable. “The issue is that the AstraZeneca vaccine underwent clinical trials and was found to show reasonable efficacy, based on those trials, the British regulatory authority approved it and I think the US has also approved it as well as the European Union, so it is shown to have efficacy. It is an effective vaccine. “However, South Africa didn’t say that the vaccine doesn’t work. They only said it is not as effective in the new variants that they have which is now the majority infection there, but in Nigeria, for now, we do not have a large population of the South Africa variant, because findings show the predominance of our cases is the original virus from Wuhan, China, not the variants. “So that being the case, one can reasonably say that the Oxford-Astrazeneca vaccine can still be useful for most of the Nigerians who need protection against the major variants. “So my take is that we should stop this debate, get whichever vaccines even if it is with Sputnik V from Russia, or the one from China, wherever it comes from as long as NAFDAC checks it and approves their method of production and agree that they are good. “We cannot produce vaccines and are now making choices, beggars shouldn’t have choices. We should just take whichever one we get and pray that God will help us.”  By Sola Ogundipe Efforts to combat the Covid-19 pandemic in South Africa suffered a setback on Sunday as the country suspended the use of the AstraZeneca-Oxford COVID-19 vaccine  after evidence emerged that the vaccine did not protect clinical-trial participants from mild or moderate illness caused by the more contagious COVID-19… February 8, 2021 In "Health" Efforts to combat the COVID-19 pandemic in South Africa suffered a setback on Sunday as the country suspended the use of the AstraZeneca-Oxford COVID-19 vaccine after evidence emerged that the vaccine did not protect clinical-trial participants from mild or moderate illness caused by the more contagious COVID-19 virus variant (… February 8, 2021 In "Health" By Sola Ogundipe The AstraZeneca/Oxford vaccine appeared to offer only limited protection against mild disease caused by the South African variant of COVID-19, the results of a new trial have suggested. Early data from a trial conducted at South Africa’s University of the Witwatersrand and Oxford University showed the two-step… February 7, 2021 In "Coronavirus Updates"