Junta supporters wielding knives and slingshots clashed with residents in Myanmar’s largest city on Thursday, as tensions rise after weeks of nationwide protests against the military coup that ousted Aung San Suu Kyi. The country has been gripped by a torrent of anger among hundreds of thousands of people who have taken to the streets to call for the release of the civilian leader and a return to democracy. But on Thursday hundreds of supporters of the military marched through Myanmar’s commercial hub Yangon carrying signs that said: “We stand with the defence services”, referring to the junta. Authorities granted them access to Yangon’s Sule Pagoda, a local landmark at a key junction that in recent days was barricaded to prevent anti-coup protesters from amassing. Residents living in the area banged pots and pans in protest at the pro-junta demonstration — a common practice among anti-coup protesters since the putsch. By noon, clashes were breaking out near Yangon Central station’s railway compound. Military supporters — some carrying pipes, knives and slingshots — turned on the booing residents, witnesses said. “They shot at us with slingshots from the car… around 10 people were injured in the head,” said Aung Zin Lin, 38, who lives nearby. Junta supporters brought batons, pocket knives and catapults, he added, but local residents fought back, detaining a number of people until police appeared. Security forces eventually arrived to find women and children linking arms in front of the railway compound in an effort to prevent them arresting any anti-coup protesters. But after a tense standoff, officers took away alleged attackers from the pro-junta group. “I believe they have the right to protest but they should not have used weapons,” Zaw Oo told AFP, bruised on a rib after he was held down by a group of assailants. “They are the bullies.” Unverified survelliance camera footage circulating on social media appears to show a man armed with a knife chasing people downtown. Alongside busy roads, Yangon locals shook fists of money at military supporters in cars, accusing them of being paid by the junta. Further uptown in the leafy campus of Yangon University, students marched peacefully, carrying the red flags of Suu Kyi’s National League for Democracy party. Since the start of February, police have deployed water cannon, tear gas and rubber bullets against protesters in several cities — with isolated use of live rounds. But protests in Yangon have remained largely peaceful, despite the presence of troops and security forces barricading key junctions. Four anti-coup protesters have been killed in crackdowns, while a man patrolling a Yangon neighbourhood against night arrests was shot dead at the weekend. The military has also reported the death of at least one police officer. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria Myanmar's junta deployed extra troops around the country and choked the internet on Monday as it intensified a crackdown on anti-coup protests, but defiant demonstrators again took to the streets. The military has steadily escalated efforts to quell an uprising against their seizure of power two weeks ago, which saw… February 15, 2021 In "Foreign" A raid on a shipyard in Myanmar's second-largest city turned violent Saturday when police and soldiers fired live rounds and rubber bullets at protesters gathering to stop arrests. At least five people were injured by rubber bullets, a photographer at the scene reported, while emergency medical staff treating the injured… February 20, 2021 In "Foreign" The African Union suspended Burkina Faso and slapped sanctions on the leaders of its military coup Friday as troops tried to stop protesters from marching on the capital's Revolution Square. September 19, 2015 In "News"