THE Nigeria Union of Teachers, NUT, has frowned at the abduction of students and teachers of Government Science Secondary School, Kagara, in Niger State by bandits. To this end, the union tasked the federal government to adopt different approach in tackling insecurity as according to it, the current strategy being deployed by security agencies was not yielding any meaningful fruit. This was as it demanded a declaration of total state of emergency on security situation in the country by the government. The NUT, reacting to the development in a statement tagged:” Terrorist Attack on Schools and Abduction of Students/Teachers One Incident Too Many”, signed by its General Secretary, Dr Mike Ike Ene, regretted the reported incident. “We call on the Federal Government to as a matter of urgency declare a state of emergency on security situation in the country. “The current strategy deployed by our security agencies fall short of expectation considering  that the Kagara abduction has just occurred while the nation is yet to fully contend with the December, 2020 abduction of students in Government Science Secondary School Kankara Katsina state. “Such criminal elements have no place in a civilized society such as Nigeria, “it said. The statement read in full:”The National Leadership of Nigeria Union of Teachers (NUT) regret the reported abduction of students and teachers of Government Science Secondary School Kagara Niger State in the early hours of Wednesday 17 February, 2021. “The Union is worried and greatly concerned over the increasing state of insecurity across the country where attacks on soft target such as schools are fast becoming danger spot for bandit and other criminal elements in Nigeria. “NUT is alarmed by this brazen attack which has left a number of families and relatives distressed. “We call on the Federal Government to as a matter of urgency declare a state of emergency on security situation in the country. “The current strategy deployed by our security agencies fall short of expectation considering  that the Kagara abduction has just occurred while the nation is yet to fully contend with the December, 2020 abduction of students in Government Science Secondary School Kankara Katsina state. “Such criminal elements have no place in a civilized society such as Nigeria. “The Federal Government must deploy the full weight of our nations security apparatus to ensure the safe return of our abducted  students and teachers. “Furthermore steps must be taken to completely eliminate all forms of security threats to our schools. We wish to reiterate  that teaching and learning can only be guaranteed in an atmosphere  safety and security. “It has become imperative for  all tiers of government  to put all hands on deck.  We therefore call on state governments  to use part of their security  voters to employ alternate  security service to complement existing security agencies in policing our schools. “We must warn that if the security situation in our schools and colleges is not guaranteed, the NUT will not hesitate to withdraw the services of all teachers in the affected states of the federation.” Vanguard News Nigeria *** Buhari's Government, incompetent in handling the Security Challenge in the Country, Senator Enagi *** Says FG is busing sharing Palliatives instead of creating Job Opportunities for the Youths By Henry Umoru THE Senate has asked President Muhammadu Buhari to as a matter of urgency, declare a state of emergency… February 17, 2021 In "News" …Say such incidents dampen interest in education By Adesina Wahab Abduction and kidnap of students under any guise, as witnessed in the case of students of Government Science Secondary School, Kankara, Katsina State or previous incidents in Chibok, Borno State and Dapchi, Yobe State must no longer be allowed to… December 21, 2020 In "News" THE Nigeria Union of Teachers, NUT, has expressed worry over the reemerging incidence of school invasion and abduction of teachers as well as students across schools in the country. December 15, 2020 In "News"