Minister of Health, Dr Osagie Ehanire, said in Lagos on Saturday that Nigeria might get COVID-19 vaccines in the next 10 days. “We are told that by the end of this month, which is about 10 days from now, we shall get the vaccines,’’ the minister said. “We do not produce the vaccines. They are manufactured abroad in about four or five countries,’’ he told newsmen at the end of an inspection tour of the Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH) Idi-Araba, Ehanire explained that the United States of America, the United Kingdom, Russia and China that had succeeded in producing the vaccines were now giving licences to other countries to reproduce them. “South Africa has a licence to make the Johnson and Johnson COVID-19 vaccines, while Russia only recently gave India the licence to produce AstraZeneca,’’ the minister said. He said countries that produced the vaccines had serious challenges with COVID-19 and decided to attend to their needs first, a situation that the WHO described as vaccine nationalism. Ehanire noted that while the whole world suffered the pangs of COVID-19 about 75 per cent of vaccines already produced were being used in 10 countries. The minister stressed that Nigeria had put all facilities in place to receive the vaccines. Welcoming the minister earlier, LUTH’s Chief Medical Director, Prof Chris Bode, asked the minister for assistance in the recruitment of 350 nurses, 50 consultants and 150 medical officers. Prof. Bode said that the hospital also needed an Oxygen plant and increased funding to build a four-storey isolation centre, run the hospital effectively and pay huge monthly electricity bills. Vanguard News Nigeria Minister of Health, Dr Osagie Ehanire, said in Lagos on Saturday that Nigeria might get COVID-19 vaccines in the next 10 days. “We are told that by the end of this month, which is about 10 days from now, we shall get the vaccines,’’ the minister said. “We do not… February 20, 2021 In "Health" The Federal Government on Friday solicited the collaboration of Government of India to produce vaccine against the Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. The Minister of Health, Dr Osagie Ehanire, said this in Abuja at the handing over ceremony of medicines donated by Indian Government to the Federal Republic of Nigeria to aid… July 17, 2020 In "News" The Minister of Health, Dr Osagie Ehanire, says the first batch of COVID-19 vaccines from Covax will arrive in Nigeria from February. Ehanire made this known on Monday in Abuja at the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 national briefing. The minister, who said Nigerians should expect the first roll out of… February 1, 2021 In "Coronavirus Updates"