South Africa’s scandal-tainted former president Jacob Zuma and French arms giant Thales, accused of graft in a case going back more than two decades, will go on trial in May, the High Court ruled Tuesday. Zuma is facing 16 charges of fraud, graft and racketeering relating to a 30-billion-rand ($2-billion /  1.67-billion-euro) purchase in 1999 of fighter jets, patrol boats and military equipment from five European arms companies. He allegedly took bribes amounting to four million rand ($270,000 or 224,000 euros) from one of the firms, French defence giant Thales at the time when he was deputy president. Judge Nkosinathi Chili at the High Court in Pietermaritzburg said the matter was certified as trial-ready and would be heard between May 17 and June 20, 2021. Zuma was not present for the announcement. The case was postponed last December, when Thales contested the racketeering charges linked to the arms deal. But a court dismissed the challenge on January 22, a decision that Thales said it would not contest. Both the state prosecution and defence attorneys had asked the pre-trial court for extra time. They cited among other things Covid restrictions on international travel that could impede the availability of witnesses living abroad. Zuma, 78, who was forced to step down in 2018 by the African National Congress (ANC) after nine years in power, is separately accused of enabling runaway looting of state assets during his tenure. The judicial panel probing this alleged graft on Monday sought orders to jail Zuma for two years for defying a court order compelling him to testify. The embattled ex-leader has repeatedly snubbed summonses by the commission, saying its chair, Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo, is biased. He testified only once, in July 2019, before staging a walkout days later. The findings of the anti-corruption commission will not lead directly to indictments but may be handed to the prosecution for possible charges. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria South Africa's embattled ex-president Jacob Zuma has abandoned attempts to halt a looming corruption trial on charges related to a 1990s arms deal, his office said Wednesday. A statement released by his foundation said the Constitutional Court had on Tuesday accepted "his withdrawal of the application for leave to appeal" against… April 29, 2020 In "Foreign" A corruption trial involving South African former president Jacob Zuma, due to resume this week, has been postponed to June because of the coronavirus outbreak, the state prosecutor said Monday. Zuma is alleged to have taken bribes of four million rand (around $214,000) related to a $3.4 billion arms deal… May 4, 2020 In "Foreign" South Africa's Supreme Court on Friday threw out an appeal by embattled ex-president Jacob Zuma, who sought to halt a corruption trial on charges related to a 1990s arms deal. Zuma had approached the top appeals court, arguing that a high court was wrong last year to refuse his application… March 13, 2020 In "News"