THE newly inaugurated Lagos State Government Task Team on Restoration of Law and Order on Apapa Ports Access Roads has solicited the cooperation of the Nigerian Shippers’ Council, NSC, to enable it solve the traffic problem in Apapa. Chairman of the Task Team, Toyin Fayinka, during a courtesy visit to Nigerian Shippers Council’s headquarters in Lagos, said the essence of the delegation’s visit to NSC was to introduce the team to the Council, emphasising that the Committee cannot succeed in its assignment without the support of the NSC, Nigerian Ports Authority, NPA, and other agencies in the maritime sector. General Manager, Lagos Traffic Management Authority, LASTMA, Jide Oduyoye, who is a member of the team, said LASTMA will not hesitate to sanction any case of indiscriminate parking of trucks on port access roads. He lamented the lack of regulation of truckers and truck ownership, pointing out that most trucks are second hand and unserviceable. He said minimum standards are required for truck drivers and trucks. Responding, the Executive Secretary/CEO of Nigerian Shippers’ Council, NSC, Hassan Bello, described the Apapa traffic situation as an international embarrassment. The traffic in Apapa, he said, is affecting the efficiency of the port. He assured the Team that the Federal Ministry of Transportation has prioritised the solving of the Apapa traffic situation. Evidence of this, he said, is the on-the-spot assessment visit to the ports by the Minister of Transportation, Chibuike Amaechi, the Permanent Secretary, Magdalene Ajani, and other top officials of the Ministry to Apapa in December 2020. He said the Implementation Committee on the Ministerial Directives to decongest traffic gridlock along the Port Access Roads and Lagos Maritime Logistics Ring would work in tandem with the Task Team as a permanent solution to the Apapa traffic problem will benefit all Nigerians by eliminating the distortions in prices of goods imported into Nigeria. By Godfrey Bivbere The Lagos State government and the Nigerian Shippers Council, NSC, are working at achieving multi-modal and 24 hours cargo delivery from the seaport. The multi-modal involves establishment of multiple transportation system including road, rail and waterways in conveyance of goods into and out of the seaports. The… October 7, 2020 In "Maritime Report" The Presidential Task Team on the Apapa gridlock has handed over the road traffic management duties to the Lagos State Government. This is contained in a statement by Mr Kayode Opeifa, the Executive Vice Chairman of the task team, on Tuesday in Abuja. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports… January 12, 2021 In "News" By Victor Ahiuma-Young Transport unions in the maritime sector, on the platform of Council of Maritime Transports Unions and Association, COMTUA, has given panacea to protracted gridlock on Oshodi-Apapa Expressway, blaming extortion by security operatives, terminal operators, shipping companies, among others for the menace. The body, at a briefing in… August 13, 2020 In "Maritime Report"