Secretary to the Government of the Federation SGF and Chairman of the Presidential Taskforce PTF on COVID-19, Mr Boss Mustapha has said barring any last-minute change of plans, Nigeria will get its first tranche of vaccines on March 2. He spoke Saturday night on a television programme monitored in Abuja. He said; “I can assure you that the vaccines are coming and get are coming very quickly barring any change in the delivery plan that has been released to us by UNICEF, wee believe that our vaccines should depart India on March 1 by 10:30pm and arrive Abuja, Nigeria at about 11:10am on March 2”. The Federal Government had earlier raised the alarm over the circulation of fake COVID-19 vaccines in the country, warning Nigerians of dangerous consequences should they resort to taking such uncertified jab. It added that following the recent certification given by the National Agency for Food Drug Administration and Control NAFDAC for the use of AstraZeneca vaccines, Nigeria is set to receive four million doses of the vaccine as part of efforts to stem the wave of the COVID-19 pandemic. Vanguard News Nigeria By Omeiza Ajayi - Abuja The Federal Government said it has placed an order for 10 million doses of the COVID-19 vaccines, regretting that the 100, 000 doses it was earlier scheduled to receive this month was no longer feasible. Explaining that the 100, 000 doses would now be received next… January 25, 2021 In "Coronavirus Updates" …13 UK variant now in Nigeria — FG ..Postpones National Sports Festival By Omeiza Ajayi The Federal Government said it has begun moves to secure the Russian COVID-19 vaccine, Sputnik V, in the wake of international politics regarding the distribution of vaccines. The government also said  it has taken steps… February 9, 2021 In "Health" ...As APC charges members to observe protocol during registration By Omeiza Ajayi The Federal Government has said every Nigerian is at great risk of contracting the COVID-19, declaring that everybody has to be vaccinated in order to defeat the pandemic. Chairman of the Presidential Taskforce PTF on COVID-19 and Secretary… February 1, 2021 In "Coronavirus Updates"