Victor Osimhen is returned to Naples on Monday evening despite the Napoli forward having to be hospitalized after banging his head on the ground during his side’s Serie A defeat at Atalanta. Nigeria striker Osimhen was stretchered off the pitch unconscious towards the end of Sunday’s 4-2 loss in Bergamo after hitting his head following a clash with Cristian Romero. The 22-year-old came round as he was transported to a hospital in the northern Italian city where tests revealed head trauma, and Napoli said in a statement that he would be returning south. “Victor Osimhen is due to return to Naples on Monday evening after staying in Bergamo overnight as a precaution… The player will be undergo further assessment on Tuesday.” Osimhen joined Napoli for a club-record fee from Lille last summer, and returned to action last month after being sidelined for over two months with a shoulder injury and coronavirus. Despite a promising start to the season he has scored just two goals for the club. Napoli fell to their third defeat in five league games as Atalanta warmed-up for their Champions League clash with Real Madrid to move fourth in Serie A. Gennaro Gattuso’s Napoli are seventh, three points off the Champions League places, with pressure on the coach after his team lost the first leg of their Europa League tie with Granada 2-0 last week. Vanguard News Nigeria There will be a clutch of new faces when the 2020/21 Serie A season kicks off this weekend. AFP Sport looks at five new signings to look out for in Italy this season: Victor Osimhen (Napoli) Napoli paid French club Lille a club record fee of up to 80 million… September 20, 2020 In "Sports" Victor Osimhen can surpass the impact made by Diego Maradona at Napoli, according to Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) president Amaju Pinnick. Osimhen is reportedly poised to leave Ligue 1 outfit Lille for Serie A's Napoli in a transfer believed to be worth an initial €60million. The 21-year-old Super Eagles star… July 27, 2020 In "Sports" Victor Osimhen has officially signed for Napoli, club President Aurelio De Laurentiis announced, with Lille also releasing a formal statement. Osimhen has put pen to paper on a five-year contract with the Naples-based club. The 21-year-old Super Eagles striker becomes one of the most expensive African players of all time,… July 31, 2020 In "Sports"