Russian Deputy Prime Minister Tatyana Golikova has tasked the health ministry and the health protection watchdog with studying Coronavirus (COVID-19) vaccination efficacy for HIV-positive people. This is going by the protocol of a Thursday meeting of the governing council for guardianship in the social sphere. “Russia’s health ministry and Rospotrebnadzor must explore the possibility to organise scientific studies of HIV resistance to antiretroviral drugs in Russia’s regions, and also studies of COVID-19 vaccination efficacy for HIV-positive people,” the document read. Apart from that, the health ministry, the ministry of industry and trade, and the federal antimonopoly service will have to make arrangements for signing long-term contracts for antiretroviral drugs purchase and present a report by April 1. Regional authorities were instructed to focus on the uninterrupted availability of diagnostic reagents and expendable materials for providing assistance to HIV-positive people. The health ministry, the Rospotrebnadzor watchdog, the ministry of industry and trade, and the finance ministry will have to analyse the accuracy of the currently available rapid HIV tests and to address the potential expansion of their use. [Sputnik/NAN] Vanguard News Nigeria By Sola Ogundipe The Lagos State AIDS Control Agency, LSACA, has commenced the training of executives of the Nigeria Automobile Technician Association (NATA) Lagos State Chapter on HIV prevention amid COVID-19 pandemic This is in line with the global epidemic control of HIV/AIDS by 2020 through the UNAIDS 90-90-90 initiative… July 1, 2020 In "Health" THE federal government, Tuesday, said it was optimistic that very soon, COVID-19 would be a thing of the past in the country, saying two vaccines under trial have more than 90 percent efficacy to end the disease. December 1, 2020 In "News" By Magnus Onyibe At a point, the second wave of the dreaded coronavirus pandemic seemed so farfetched. But with the number of cases of covid-19 pandemic carriers ramping up as reflected by the increase in the count of people testing positive for a disease that was thought to be on its… December 15, 2020 In "Viewpoint"