A youth group under the auspices of GYB2PYB has shown their solidarity to the steps taken so far by the Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, APC, Mobilisation & Sensitisation Committee cum Kogi State Governor, Yahaya Bello who recently received Femi Fani-Kayode, a chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP. Recall the Kogi State Governor alongside the National Chairman of the APC, Governor Mai Buni of Yobe State had yesterday received the former Minister of Aviation, Femi Fani-Kayode to the ruling’s All Progressive Congress, APC. In a statement issued on his official Twitter handle on Tuesday, Fani-Kayode said the meeting with the APC leadership was to build bridges, join hands across political divides and regional lines to save Nigeria from drifting into civil war. He also said that he’s in talks with the leaders of other political parties asides the ruling APC. The former minister, however, refused to comment on his alleged defection to the APC. Reacting, GYB2PYB in a statement signed by its Director-General on Tuesday, Amb. Oladele John Nihi said the alleged defection of Fani-Kayode to APC is a welcome idea to the party, adding “the desire to achieving a new Nigeria is a collective effort”. The group said the alleged defection of the PDP chieftain will bring about a great change to Nigeria’s political development, adding that the move by the former Minister is “not only a plus, but a vivid demonstration of the true commitment of the party’s leadership that the APC is home for all”. “The desire to achieving a new Nigeria is a collective effort; as a Yoruba adage would have it that a tree does not make a forest. And for a sea to guarantee smooth sailing, proper dredging is required. The APC has shown to Nigerians both home and abroad, that there is room for everyone willing to contribute meaningfully to the development of our dear nation. “As the Party’s mobilizer; Governor Yahaya Bello has shown great capacity in a short period of time, that the confidence imposes on him by the party is worthwhile. Truly a Leader of our generation is here,” the statement concluded. Vanguard News Nigeria Director-General of the Progressive Governors' Forum PGF, Salihu Moh. Lukman has kicked against any attempt to admit a former Aviation minister and chieftain of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party PDP, Chief Femi Fani-Kayode into the ruling All Progressives Congress APC, saying to do so would tantamount to 'rewarding scandalous behaviour'. February 9, 2021 In "Politics" By Omeiza Ajayi - Abuja The Caretaker Committee Chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress APC, Mai Mala Buni has assumed office at the party's national secretariat. Buni who is also the governor of Yobe state promised to carry all factions along in seeking for lasting peace for the party.… June 25, 2020 In "News" *Sets to merge with APC Arogbonlo Israel GYB2PYB, a Youth Support Group, has made known its plan to collapse structure following the recent development orchestrated by the Kogi State Governor Yahaya Bello's response to the call by the group to join the 2023 presidential race. Recall the Kogi State Governor… January 30, 2021 In "News"