About 4,000 herdsmen have moved into Kaduna state from the south following the quit notice order given to criminal herders by some state governments in the south. Journalists were told that a popular grazing community in the state, Labduga community in Kachia Local Government Area, started witnessing large influx of these herdsmen and their cattle, since last week. The  Kaduna State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA) has confirmed this development when its official, Hussaini Abdullahi said they  had so far verified about 4, 000, even as more are still on the way to Kaduna. “SEMA and an NGO, Early Recovery Initiative are conducting headcount of the fleeing herdsmen for possible assistance. We do not operate a conventional camp for them, they have been melting into the host community, sourcing immediate assistance from relatives and good samaritans,” he said. Mr. Abdullahi said most of the fleeing herders have lost their means of livelihood and needed food and non-food items urgently. “But we have also observed that they are also suffering from psychosocial trauma and they, therefore, need psychosocial counseling. We will soon visit them and conduct a needs assessment of their situation to see where we can possibly assist them,” he said. In a related development, the Director of Publicity, Kaduna State Chapter of Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria (MACBAN), Ibrahim Bayero, has lamented over the plight of the herdsmen and described their condition as pathetic. Bayero said they have commenced mobilisation of members to see how they could assist the returnee herders. Vanguard News Nigeria Long-standing tensions between herdsmen and farmers have flared up again in Kaduna state, northern Nigeria, leaving possibly hundreds dead in tit-for-tat violence. February 27, 2017 In "News" …Say criminal elements shouln’t be used to tar any ethnic group …Urge leaders at all levels to stop inflammatory remarks capable of worsening insecurity …El-Rufai condemns eviction of herders, says Nigerians can live wherever they want …Suspected herdsmen set school ablaze in Kogi By Marie-Therese Lalong, Boluwaji Obahopo & Hassan… February 5, 2021 In "News" AN accessory before the fact is one whose will contributes to the felony committed and he must be too far away to render assistance, or he becomes a principal in the second degree. December 6, 2016 In "Candid Notes"