TRAGEDY has struck in Azia, a community in Ihiala Local Government Area of Anambra State, following the murder of a 70 year old man, Mr. Kenneth Ekwesianya, his wife, Grace (50) and their 36 year old daughter, Chioma, who was a postgraduate student at Chukwuemeka Odumegwu Ojukwu University. Another person, Emeka Ntukokwu, 56, said to be a school teacher, sustained injuries during the attack, which took place in a Sabbath church in the community. Kenneth was a businessman based in Azia, while his wife was the headmistress at Ubom Community Primary School, Azia,. It was gathered that unknown gunman invaded the church while the mid-week service was going on and murdered the man, his wife and daughter. He shot them  and escaped into a waiting car outside the church they zoomed off. Anambra State Police Public Relations Officer, PPRO, Haruna Mohammed said investigation was ongoing to unravel the circumstances surrounding the incident. According to him, efforts were also being intensified in order to arrest the perpetrators and bring them to book. The younger brother of the man, Dr. Emma Ekwesianya, who was a former chairman of the Nigeria Medical Association in Anambra State and currently the director of medical services at Chukwuemeka Odumegwu Ojukwu University told Vanguard that the family was still in shock as a result of the incident. “He is my elder brother and he was the person that trained me in school. This is a very big blow to our family,” he said. It was not clear what might have led to the killing of members of one family inside the church, but there were reports that it had to do with business that turned awry. Vanguard News Nigeria Awka—THE sleepy community of Azia in Ihiala Local Government Area of Anambra State was in mournful mood yesterday as the nine bodies of the family of Charles Obidigwe, who died of burns sustained from cooking gas explosion in Lagos last month, were buried. August 5, 2015 In "News" Ekwulobia — Igbokaenyi, one of the seven Igala speaking communities in Anambra State that had been abandoned over the years by both the local and state governments. The seven Igala communities known as Olumbanasaa and located at Anambra West Local Government area of Anambra State include Ode, Igbedor, Odekpe, Alla,… May 27, 2015 In "Human Angle" THE lingering crisis between the Catholic faithful and a section of Awka community over the observance of Christian burial rights in the area took another dimension, Wednesday night, when the two clashed openly in the heart of the Anambra State capital, leaving about 30 persons wounded. July 25, 2013 In "News"