Popular  Disc Jockey and singer, Florence Otedola, aka DJ Cuppy has  shared her experience working with Teni, describing it as “flawless.” Cuppy featured Teni in her party-themed song, ‘Litty Lit’ which she recently released into the market. Sharing her experience while speaking with family-oriented TV channel, iVogue TV, Cuppy said Teni made the whole video experience such a fun thing. “She worked in the studio, super vibrant, full of energy, ready to party. Actually, Teni really came through for me. Teni had been in a very stressful shoot that same day, but she came with the energy and she reassured me that we were going to make it, and that’s exactly what we did. Teni actually wasn’t feeling too well on that day so we had to push through. I was the one giving her the ginger. But I think it all came together and beautifully well,” she said. On the idea behind the song, ‘Litty Lit’,  Cuppy said; “I’m not married myself, but I definitely have always wanted to throw my own lavish oleku owambe party. And so when I thought about a song with Teni and it’s all about getting lit and having a good time, this video was spot on.” According to her ,  as a DJ, she gets to experience the most amazing events including weddings and traditional gatherings, and she has always been inspired by the experience. Vanguard News Nigeria By Sylvester Kwentua DJ Cuppy, the celebrity DJ and daughter of Oil and Gas businessman, Femi Otedola, Several days after releasing her project, has eulogized her colleague Teni the Entertainer for helping her through dark times. According to DJ Cuppy, she suffered a loss of confidence prior to the release… March 14, 2020 In "Entertainment" Going by Femi Otedola’s reputation and influence, the oil billionaire could have given his daughter, Florence Otedola known in the entertainment industry as DJ Cuppy, anything she wants including any plum job she desires. But his daughter has charted a course for herself in the music industry as a singer… July 18, 2015 In "Music" Nigerian-born DJ and music producer, Florence Ifeoluwa Otedola, also known as DJ Cuppy, is a phenomenal personality who has taken the disk jockey trade to another level. Cuppy, who is the second out of four children of billionaire Femi Otedola, has managed to carve a niche for herself in the… August 23, 2015 In "Entertainment"