Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Otunba Adeniyi Adebayo has said that the government would remain committed to supporting investors to realise their goals. He spoke while receiving a delegation of Daniel Franco Institute who visited him to seek support for the setting up of the Rabelat Entrepreneurship Centre for Animal Husbandry (RECAH) in Nigeria. Adebayo said the Federal Government would continue to do its best to make the country a safe destination for investors. He noted that his ministry has the mandate of facilitating the development of viable non-oil commodities, in line with quality management systems, geared towards boosting indigenous food and animal production, consumption, sustainability, as well as acceptability at targeted international markets for foreign exchange earnings. He pointed out that it was imperative for the ministry to engage the institute to deliberate on the nature of strategic partnership and level of collaboration. Managing Director, Rabelat Nigeria Limited., Dr Ahmed Raji said RECAH was structured to run both training and commercial outfits for the animal husbandry subsector. He said the training arm would focus on the basic studies in animal husbandry and entrepreneurship, and provide the platform for trainees to select, breed, care-for, process and market livestock and small animals. He put the cost of the project at N2 billion, saying the amount would be spent on the construction of administration block and lecture halls, hostel, other infrastructural facilities and purchase of teaching aids. Vanguard News Nigeria By Soni Daniel - Abuja Ambitious move by the current Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Otunba Adeniyi Adabayo, to properly locate companies and parastatals in the Export Procession Zones Authority and the Oil and Gas Free Zones Authority has finally received the backing of key stakeholders in the industry… May 16, 2020 In "News" The United Arab Emirates has increased its investment portfolio in Nigeria by 25 per cent in 2019 against last year's average of $1.2 billion. October 17, 2019 In "Business" The Federal Government on Thursday expressed readiness to provide an enabling environment that would stimulate and boost competitiveness in the Nigerian capital market. Otunba Niyi Adebayo, Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, stated this in a keynote speech at the 23rd Annual Conference of the Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers (CIS)… November 22, 2019 In "Business"