A former Secretary to the Delta State Government, SSG, Comrade Ovuozourie Macaulay, Tuesday sympathized with the Edewor family and the Isoko nation over the demise of the pioneering Bishop of the Oleh Diocese of the Church of Nigeria, Anglican Communion, Rt. Rev. Jonathan E. Edewor. Macaulay in a condolence message lamented that the death of the cleric who hailed from the Owhe clan in Isoko North Local Government Area of the State was coming barely two weeks after the loss of another illustrious son of the clan, Hon. Tim Owhefere. He, however, noted that Edewor was a well-rounded multifaceted person who lived a fulfilled life having been an accomplished educationist, a labour leader, a clergy and community leader. He said: “I recall that the retired Bishop first emerged Chairman of the Nigeria Union of Teachers (NUT) in the defunct Bendel State and later became the pioneer state chairman of NUT when Delta State was created. “He was also at the leadership echelon of the Isoko Development Union (IDU) and as a clergy, he rose to become the first Bishop of the Oleh Diocese of the Anglican Church where he served meritoriously until retirement.” Macaulay prayed to God Almighty to grant the family the fortitude to bear the loss. Vanguard News Nigeria A former Secretary to the Delta State Government, SSG, Comrade Ovuozourie Macaulay, Saturday said the news of the death of the Majority Leader of the State House of Assembly, Hon Tim Kome Owhefere came to him as a rude shock with disbelief, lamenting that the death of the lawmaker is… January 30, 2021 In "News" Former Secretary to Delta State Government (SSG), Comrade Ovuozourie Macaulay has described as barbaric, the severed head of an unknown young man dumped in Uzere junction, Isoko South Local Government Area and called on the Nigeria Police to fish out the culprits. April 3, 2018 In "News" Former Secretary to Delta State Government, Comrade (Chief) Ovuozourie Macaulay has declared support for the re-election bid of Senator Ifeanyi Okowa ahead of the 2019 general elections, with a call on Isokos to do same. June 12, 2018 In "News"