The Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), Lagos Chapter, on Thursday mourned the demise of Lagos state’s first civilian governor, Alhaji Lateef Kayode Jakande. Jakande who died at the age of 91 according to the Union was “an erudite journalist, publisher, administrator par excellence and a political giant”. A press statement jointly signed by NUJ Lagos Chapter’s Chairman (Adeleye Ajayi) and Secretary (Tunde Olalere), noted some of his achievement thus; “he recorded massive infrastructure development during his tenure, especially in the areas of housing and education (building of schools)”. The statement also reads; “It is on record that he made it possible for people to attend schools and had shelters. “He made indelible marks in Nigeria’s political history dated back to his days in Action Group and UPN. Nigeria’s political history cannot be written without a mention of Jakande (Baba Kekere). “Rest in Peace Sir.” In a list of quick facts about the late Lagos state ex-governor, Jakande, Vanguard compiled: Vanguard News Nigeria Former governor of Ogun State, Chief Olusegun Osoba, has mourned the first Civilian Governor of Lagos state Alhaji Lateef Jakande, who died at the age of 91 on Thursday. In a statement sent to Vanguard, Osoba, described Jakande as a political colossus, who will be remembered in history. His words:… February 11, 2021 In "News" …How he died – Seyi, son …Buhari, NUJ, NPAN, Afenifere, Osoba, Lawan, govs, others shower tributes …Lagos NUJ names Light House after him …Jakande was last of the titans —Tinubu …Oyetola condoles Sanwo-Olu, Lagos govt over Jakande's death …To be buried at Volts and Gardens, Ikoyi 4 pm today …NGE… February 12, 2021 In "News" …Nigeria has lost one of its exemplary political leaders and administrators, Lawan …Jakande is a Personification of True Greatness,  Omo- Agege By Henry Umoru PRESIDENT the Senate, Senator Ahmad Lawan, said Thursday that with the death of Second Republic Governor of Lagos State, Alhaji Lateef Kayode Jakande, Nigeria has lost… February 11, 2021 In "News"