 IN order to keep international trade unhindered, the Federal Government has been urged to prioritise access to COVID-19 vaccination for Nigerian seafarers and dockworkers. Spokesman of the Seaport Terminal Operators Association of Nigeria, STOAN, Dr. Bolaji Akinola, who made the call in a statement in Lagos said seafarers and port workers have been designated as essential workers by the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency, NIMASA. He said priority vaccination for these categories of maritime workers will ensure sustenance of the logistics chain He further stated: “Seafarers and dockworkers are under-recognised, under-publicised and unsung economy heroes despite their significant contributions to keeping our nation afloat during the economic dislocation caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. “It is, therefore, imperative to ensure continuity of the maritime workforce through the continuous provision of protective health supplies, rapid testing supplies and priority access to vaccination. “Ensuring priority access to COVID-19 vaccines to these critical maritime workers is vital to keeping the supply chain active. If our seafarers and port workers are unprotected, the supply chain will become vulnerable.” The STOAN spokesman also said that contrary to insinuations in certain quarters, Nigeria has abundant logistics capacity to transport and store the COVID-19 vaccines at the required temperature. “We have abundant refrigerated containers, also called reefer containers, for the transportation and temporary storage of temperature-sensitive cargo including vaccines. “These refrigerated containers are capable of controlling temperature ranging from -65 °C up to 40 °C. Reefer containers allow the transportation of cargo in a way that preserves its freshness and efficacy all year round,” he added. Recently, the World Health Organisation, WHO, said a total of 16 million AstraZeneca doses of COVID-19 vaccines out of the 88 million allocated to Africa will soon arrive Nigeria. President General of the Maritime Workers Union of Nigeria, MWUN, Comrade Adewale Adeyanju, in this interview with EGUONO ODJEGBA, hinted that his union has a pending action on the shipping industry with a declaration of state of emergency, which, according to him, will be implemented as soon as COVID-19 relapses.… July 22, 2020 In "Maritime Report" Contrary to controversies surrounding the recent signing of dockworkers Collective Bargaining Agreement, CBA, the President General of the Maritime Workers Union of Nigeria, MWUN, Comrade Adewale Adeyanju, has said the relationship between the    Union and Stevedoring Contractors is smooth. January 16, 2019 In "Interview" Threatens industrial unrest By Victor Young The Maritime Workers Union of Nigeria, MWUN, on Friday, alleged plots by employers in the maritime industry to slash workers' salaries and other benefits. The union in a May Day message warned the employers to prepare for war as organized Labour would not accept… May 1, 2020 In "News"