President Muhammadu Buhari is currently presiding over the 33rd virtual Federal Executive Council, FEC, meeting at the Council Chamber, Presidential Villa, Abuja. Physically present at the meeting that started by 10 am are Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, Secretary to the Government of the Federation, SGF, Boss Mustapha and Chief of Staff to the President, Professor Ibrahim Gambari. Ten Ministers who are physically attending the meeting are the Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, Attorney General of the Federation, AGF and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, the Minister of Finance, Zainab Ahmed, the Minister of Science and Technology, Dr Ogbonnaya Onu and Suleiman Adamu, Water Resources. Others are, the Ministers of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola, Power, Sale Mamman, Humanitarian Affairs, Sadiya Umar, Communications and Digital Economy, Dr Isa Pantami and the Minister of State for Petroleum, Timipre Sylva. The Head of Service of the Federation, Dr Folasade Yemi-Esan and other Ministers are participating in the weekly council meeting from their various offices in Abuja. Vanguard News Nigeria By Johnbosco Agbakwuru PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari is currently presiding over the 19th virtual Federal Executive Council, FEC, meeting at the Council Chamber, Presidential Villa, Abuja. Physically present at the meeting, which started at about 10:00am are Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, Secretary to the Government of the Federation, SGF, Boss Mustapha,… October 14, 2020 In "News" By Johnbosco Agbakwuru ABUJA --- PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari is currently presiding over the fourth virtual Federal Executive Council (FEC) meeting coordinated from the Council Chamber, Presidential Villa, Abuja. The meeting started immediately President Buhari arrived at 10am with the rendition of the National Anthem. Physically present are Vice President, Yemi… June 10, 2020 In "News" PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari is currently presiding over the 9th virtual Federal Executive Council Meeting, FEC, meeting at the Council Chamber, Presidential Villa, Abuja. July 22, 2020 In "News"