The Minister of Information and culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed has demanded the cancellation of the ongoing registration and revalidation exercise of the ruling All Progressive Congress (APC) in Kwara State. The minister who claimed to be speaking for all the stakeholders in Kwara State said this on Monday at a press conference in Oro, his country home in Irepodun local government area of the state after he revalidated his party membership at his Oro PU 006 Oro ward 2. He said the reports from his findings across the one hundred and eighty-three wards across the sixteen local governments of the state showed that the exercise did not follow the stipulated guidelines of the party. The minister among others also called for the disbandment of Senator John Dan Boyi committee sent to the state by the national headquarters of the party saying that his activities were one-sided. Alh Lai Mohammed who also indicted, the Speaker of the state house of assembly and some top government officials and the police in the irregularities of the exercise in the state said that the party’s committee in the state only worked with one out of the four existing tendencies of the party in the state. The minister said; “we, the critical stakeholders of the APC in Kwara State, hereby demand the following: “Immediate cancellation of the APC Membership Registration Exercise in Kwara State and the putting in place of a process to ensure the conduct of a credible and fair exercise that will enjoy the support and confidence of all. “The Immediate disbandment of the Senator John Danboyi-led Membership Registration Committee for Kwara State. A vast majority of the APC stakeholders in the state have lost confidence in the committee. “The constitution of a fresh Membership Registration Committee that is truly independent, non-compromised and sensitive to the delicate diverse interests in the party. “A thorough investigation into the botched membership registration exercise by the Senator John Danboyi-led committee. Vanguard News Nigeria The by-election into the House of Representatives in Kwara South recorded impressive turnout as voters came out in their hundreds to vote for candidates of their choice. November 17, 2018 In "News" Indications emerged yesterday that the ruling All Progressives Congress, APC, is moving against loyalists of the Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki in government as Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, yesterday directed the Senate President's loyalists in the various agencies of the Federal Government to resign from office… July 30, 2018 In "Headlines" ABUJA—The controversy arising from the arrest of some alleged cultists in Kwara State and warning of blackmail against Senate President, Bukola Saraki, deepened yesterday as the Kwara State caucus in the House of Representatives and the Minister of Information, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, joined the fray. May 18, 2018 In "News"