Nigerian Afropop star  Joseph Akinfewa popularly known as  ‘Joeboy’ has released his first full-length debut album titled “Somewhere Between Beauty & Magic” via Banku Music/emPawa Africa. The Lagos-born singer continues his ascent with “Somewhere Between Beauty & Magic”, a celebration of love in its myriad forms. Joeboy is the sole vocalist across the project’s 14 tracks, which were produced by a committee of top Afrobeats producers led by E Kelly, Killertunes,Dëra, and BeatsbyKO. “Working on this project was life-changing — I met a version of myself I never knew before,” JOEBOY says. “The plan was to come up with a title that best describes love, without actually using the word love. Hence Somewhere Between Beauty & Magic. Because love is a perfect blend of beauty and magic.” Somewhere Between Beauty & Magic follows Joeboy’s 2019 EP, Love and Light, and a series of notable 2020 collaborations including ‘Sun Comes Up” with Major Lazer and “Nobody” with Mr Eazi and DJ Neptune. “Nobody” was the #1 song of 2020 in Nigeria, topping Apple Music’s singles chart in eight countries on its way to over 100 million streams worldwide Globally, “Nobody” was the third most popular song of the year on Triller, where users uploaded more than 10 million videos soundtracked by the song. Vanguard News Nigeria Nigerian Afropop star  Joseph Akinfewa popularly known as  'JOEBOY' today released this first full-length debut, Somewhere Between Beauty & Magic via Banku Music/emPawa Africa. The Lagos-born singer continues his ascent with Somewhere Between Beauty & Magic, a celebration of love in its myriad forms. JOEBOY is the sole vocalist across… February 4, 2021 In "News" On another thrilling episode of MTV Base Behind The Story, one of the most talked-about names bubbling out of the Nigerian music scene, Joeboy, sat with host, Sammy Walsh. Born Akinfenwa-Donus Joseph, the singer talked about his childhood, family, music, relationships and his plans for the future. March 9, 2020 In "Entertainment" By Ayo Onikoyi Fast-rising afropop artist, Joseph Akinwale Akinfenwa popularly known as Joeboy recently revealed how he pursued a career in human resources management. The jacket and tie lifestyle didn't suit him, however, and he gave it all up to follow his dream of becoming a musician. The pop sensation… December 19, 2020 In "Entertainment"