The Northern Elders Forum (NEF), on Tuesday, urged President Muhammadu Buhari and the 36 State Governors to explore all available channels to protect the Fulani communities in the South. The Director, Publicity and Advocacy, NEF, Dr Hakeem Baba-Ahmed, made the call in a statement issued to journalists in Abuja. The Forum, which insisted that no politician had the right to outsource the work of the police to local thugs and gangs, said it was worried by the reports of forced ejections and attacks on Fulani herders, their families and communities in some states of the South since Sunday night. According to NEF, such targeted attacks represented a danger for all Nigerians, hence the need for those attacking Fulani communities in the South; and setting the country on a dangerous path, to be arrested and prosecuted. The statement reads, “Northern Elders Forum is deeply worried by reports of ejections under threats and attacks on Fulani herders, families and communities in some States of the South. “The Forum has received these reports since the night of Sunday, January 31, and had taken the responsible step by drawing the attention of authorities to the dangers which these attacks represent for all Nigerians. “We have also advised law-abiding Fulani communities to seek protection where it is available, and have appealed to other Fulani to resist the temptation to take the law into their own hands. “It is necessary to warn people who threaten law-abiding Fulani communities in all parts of Nigeria, but particularly in some parts of the South, to desist. A vast majority of the Fulani are law-abiding and have rights to live lawfully wherever they can find means of subsistence. “Like all Nigerians who can be found in every inch of Nigeria, the rights of the Fulani will not be abridged by criminals hiding behind ethnic interests to exterminate them. “Citizens and groups who play the role of police and other law-enforcement agencies are committing crimes, and they must be stopped by leaders who are sworn to protect the law and security of all Nigerians. “The Forum reminds the nation that there are criminals in all ethnic groups, and the nation will be treading dangerous grounds if it continues to tolerate the demonization of entire groups over particular types of crimes. “The Forum calls on President Muhammadu Buhari and State Governors to take immediate and decisive steps to protect law-abiding members of Fulani communities from killers and criminals who apparently believe that Fulani have no rights in Nigeria. “It demands the immediate arrest and prosecution of persons who are attacking Fulani and setting the country on a very dangerous path. “The Forum repeats its earlier position: the Fulani will not be ejected from any Nigerian community only on the basis of being Fulani or herding cattle within the limits of laws and regulations. States, which seek to limit criminal activities are perfectly entitled to do so, but they must follow due process, and avoid exposing innocent citizens to danger at all cost. “The Forum demands that the Nigeria Police must live up to its constitutional responsibility to detect crimes and arrest and prosecute criminals, whoever they are. No politician has the right to outsource the work of the police to local thugs and gangs.” The Forum said if communities in parts of the country insist that the Fulani is unwelcome, it will advise them to relocate to the North. “Northern Governors should move urgently to prepare to receive Fulani communities being forcefully ejected “The Forum appeals again for all Nigerians to exercise restraint and not to play into the hands of people who desire to achieve dubious political goals by pitching citizens against each other,” the statement read. According to the Northern elders, people who inflame passions by circulating targeted videos and other materials should also desist. “The Forum hopes that Nigerians will see firm, fair and responsible leadership from all elected leaders without delay,” they added. Vanguard News Nigeria Angry words flowed yesterday as regional socio-political groups yesterday blasted the Northern Elders Forum, NEF,  and Coalition of Northern Groups for calling on Fulani herdsmen to leave the southern part of the country and return to the north. July 18, 2019 In "Headlines" PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari has enjoined all Nigerians to ignore the recent call by the Northern Elders Forum, NEF, to Fulani herders, asking them to leave the southern part of Nigeria. July 17, 2019 In "News" By Luminous Jannamike, Abuja ‌The Northern Elders Forum (NEF), on Monday, in Abuja said only a collective national approach would mitigate the problems cattle herding poses to the economy, the farmers, the herders themselves and their host communities. This is even as the Northern elders urged President Muhammadu Buhari to… January 25, 2021 In "News"