Renowned Nigerian actor and comedian, Nkem Owoh,  popularly known on the screens as Osuofia, celebrates his 63rd birthday on Sunday. Owoh took to his Instagram page to announce his new age where he requested his fans to pray for him. He said: “Happy birthday to me. Join me in this celebration by saying a word of prayer”. Owoh is one of the names that cannot be left out when considering amiable personalities of the Nigerian movie industry. The award-winning actor had become a  source of happiness and joy to many households , putting  smiles on the faces of many who watch his movies. He was born on Feb. 7, 1958, in Udi Local Government Area of Enugu State, Nigeria and during his university days, Owoh was acting in various television and film productions. Owoh, with his hilarious Osuofia screen mannerism, has blessed the Nollywood industry with many interesting and fascinating movies that put smiles on the faces of  his audience. His talent and skills continue to keep fans glued to their TV screens with his peculiar style and funny contents. In 2008, he won the African Movie Academy Award for Best Actor in a leading role in the Nigerian movie “Stronger than Pain”. Owoh featured in the 2003 film ‘Osuofia in London’, ‘Things Fall Apart’ with Pete Edochie in 1987, `Ukwa’ with Patience Ozokwor in 2000, ‘Big Man Big Trouble’ with Francis Agu in 1999, ‘Conspiracy’ with Onyeka Onwenu in 2001 and many others. (NAN) Vanguard News Nigeria Nollywood actor, Nkem Owoh popularly known as Osuofia was honoured with a Lifetime Achievement Award by the organizers of Africa Movie Academy Awards, AMAA, for his immense contribution to the development of the Nigerian film industry. July 16, 2017 In "Entertainment" Ace-actor and comedian, Nkem Owoh popularly called Osuofia has a way of paying homage to a dear colleague or a friend whether dead or alive. October 29, 2011 In "Home Video People" Comic-actor, Muonago Collins popularly called Nche Security   who is known for his excellent delivery of roles and striking resemblance with veteran actor, Nkem Owoh a.k.a Osuofia is not usually drunk as he portrays in movies. In real life, he presents a different picture of himself- a calm and harmless gentle… February 16, 2018 In "Entertainment"