Nigerian soldiers have overrun a farm allegedly owned by Boko Haram leader, Abubakar Shekau in the Sambisa forest just the military troops successfully repelled ISWAP Terrorists who attacked Dikwa town on Friday evening. In a video obtained by PRNigeria, the troops stormed the farm in the Sambisa axis and invited some locals to help themselves with edibles before destroying the farm. The troops could be heard mocking the sect leader and asking him to come out from the hiding. Meanwhile, the Nigerian troops in Dikwa after repelling the attack by ISWAP nabbed two men suspected to be terrorist informants living in the community. PRNigeria had reported the damning activities of local informants who are actively sabotaging the efforts of Nigerian troops by revealing their position and movements to the terrorists. An intelligence source told PRNigeria that the terrorists invaded a military Super Camp unit on the northern axis of the town on several light trucks mounted with Heavy Machine Guns (HMGs). “The terrorists suspected to be aided by informants approached the base from two axes. “One of the groups attacked from the northern axis towards Marte road, while the other group approached the base from the north-eastern axis towards Gajibo road. “The troops on the ground had got a signal of the attempted invasion and retreated to Ajiri Community in the Southern axis, where they relaunched counter-attacks with troops from Gulumba. “A Ground Force Close Air Support (CAS) component deployed also attacked the terrorists from the air destroying their gun trucks and makeshift camps.” PRNigeria further gathered that the terrorists are coordinating their recent attacks from their new base in Andakar with some commanders and mercenaries from neighbouring countries. WATCH VIDEO HERE:  Vanguard News Nigeria By Kingsley Omonobi Security sources have raised serious concerns over the indiscriminate planting of landmines and activities of Boko Haram informants in some Local Government Areas (LGAs) in the North-East, PRNigeria has learnt. It was discovered that in some communities, the informants not only leak vital information to the terrorists… February 8, 2021 In "News" By Dan Abakpa In September 2014, the Presidency served a pyrrhic victory to Nigerians over claims that it has killed Boko Haram’s most vicious leader, Abubakar Shekau. The public statement excited Nigerians but sadly turned out to be a ruse like previous such claims in July 2009 and another in… November 11, 2019 In "Viewpoint" Details of how Abubakar Shekau, the impostor and leader of the Boko Haram terrorist group lost his left in a shootout with Nigerian troops in Konduga on Wednesday Sept. 17 emerged yesterday with military sources disclosing that he met his waterloo in an ambush reminiscent of the type the sect… September 22, 2014 In "News"