Apparently basking in personal euphoria and self adulations, Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, on Saturday rated his political party, the ruling All Progressives Congress, APC as number in Nigeria. Aslo, describing it as the “party of progress”, Gbajabiamila urged Nigerians to take advantage of the registration and revalidation exercise of the party to become members. Gbajabiamila spoke at his ward in Surulere Local Government Area of Lagos State, where he had his membership revalidated. The Speaker who represents Surulere 1 Federal Constituency, stated that the APC was committed to upholding democratic principles, adding that the exercise was for both existing members and new ones. He appealed to all party members to join the mobilisation efforts to get more eligible Nigerians to participate in the exercise. “I want to urge Nigerians to use the opportunity of the registration/revalidation exercise to join the party. APC is the number one party; APC is the party of progress. “I also urge all our party members to participate in the exercise to update their membership and take ownership of the party. “You need to take ownership of the party and until you have registered, re-registered or have been  revalidated, you are obviously not yet an authentic member of the APC.” Gbajabiamila noted that members could register their grievances, participate in party activities and make any contributions they wished to make to community development in the name of the APC. He also assured all that the APC would not discriminate against anyone. Gbajabiamila specifically called on APC members in his constituency to move from communities to communities to mobilise new members to join the party. “My charge to you today is to go and look for those who have not registered before, those who were not members of APC. “Those who were 15, 16, 17 and so on; were not eligible the time we did the last election. “So, we want the youths, everybody to be registered with the party”, he said. Vanguard News Nigeria Ikeja, June 22,2019 (NAN) Speaker of the House of Representatives, Mr Femi Gbajabiamila, on Saturday, received a rousing reception at the Lagos Airport, as joyous members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) gathered to welcome him. Gbajabiamila arrived the Presidential Wing of the Murtala Muhammed Airport in a Nigeria Air… June 22, 2019 In "News" At the beginning of the speakership race, seven contenders emerged: Femi Gbajabiamila, APC, Lagos; Yakub Dogara, APC Bauchi; Pally Iriase, APC, Edo; Tahir Monguno, APC Borno; Ajibola Famurewa, APC, Osun; Abdulmunin Jibrin, APC, Kano and Comrade Peter Akpatason, APC, Edo. But now, it is going to be a straight fight… June 7, 2015 In "News" The Leader of the House of Representatives, Mr Femi Gbajabiamila on Friday said there was no division in the Lagos chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) over the May 19 congress. June 2, 2018 In "News"