Ahead of the South-West Zonal Congress of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), former Governor of Ekiti State, Ayodele Fayose, today, held a strategic meeting with the zonal chairmanship aspirant, Dr Eddy Olafeso, four States Chairmen, Zonal caretaker committee members and other leaders of the party. Though what was discussed in the meeting held at the Lagos residence Fayose, was not disclosed to journalists, it was learnt that the meeting evaluated the chances of Dr Olafeso and aspirants for other positions in the group. The meeting also resolved to hold an interactive session with some selected stakeholders in Ondo State tomorrow. At the meeting was Hon. Sunday Bisi, Engr Adedeji Doherty, Chief Bisi Kolawole and Dr Sikirulai Ogundele, Chairmen of Osun, Ekiti, Lagos and Ogun States respectively. Also in the meeting were seven members of the zonal caretaker committee, including the Zonal Secretary, Hon. Daisi Akintan as well as the immediate past Zonal Secretary, who is also aspiring to return to the same position, Bunmi Jenyo. Even though non of the members of Fayose group, who attended the closed-door meeting was ready to divulge what was discussed, the Ogun State Chairman, who is also the chairman of the State chairmen, Dr Sikirulai Ogundele, confirmed the Akure, Ondo State meeting. He said, “we the leaders of Fayose group are meeting Ondo State stakeholders tomorrow, Wednesday, January 10, 2021.” He also condemned activities of former Osun State Governor, Prince Olagunsoye Oyinlola, saying he was profiting materially from the South-West crisis, advising him to live a life of a statesman. Vanguard News Nigeria By James Ogunnaike - Abeokuta Former Governor of Ekiti State, Mr Ayodele Fayose, has warned the Oyo State governor, Engr Seyi Makinde to steer clear of party structures in all the states in the Southwest region of the country. Fayose, who gave the warning in Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital,… September 10, 2020 In "Politics" ***Party suspends indefinitely former state party chairman, four others ***Dissolves state elders committee ***Our suspension is actionable, will ignite a series of reaction - Fadaka By Dayo Johnson - Akure The fight over the soul of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the South West between the former governor of… December 23, 2020 In "Politics" Mr Eddy Olafeso, the immediate past National Vice Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), in South-West on Sunday said ex-Gov Ayodele Fayose remained a critical voice in the party’s affair in the region. Olafeso made the clarification in Ado-Ekiti during a meeting with the party’s delegates over his Vice… September 14, 2020 In "News"