Maj.-Gen. Chukwuemeka Okonkwo, the Commander of the Special Task Force, Operation Safe Haven (OPSH), which is maintaining peace in Plateau and environs has warned troops to desist from molesting innocent civilians but to go after criminals. Okonkwo spoke at the inauguration of a special operation code named “Hakorin Damisa” on Saturday in Bassa. The Special operation, which would last for four days, aimed at reducing insecurity in some parts of Bassa and Riyom Local Government Areas (LGAs) of Plateau. The commander, who charged the troops to be professional  in their conduct,  urged them to ensure that isolated killings, attacks and counter-attacks, armed robberies, kidnappings, banditry and other criminal acts were drastically reduced. “You are here to dominate, neutralise the bad guys and stop all forms of insecurity in this area. “Do not harass innocent civilians, they are not the enemy. Neither Irigwe nor Fulani are the enemies, the criminals are the enemies, so go after them. “You must be professional in your conduct and operate within the ambit of the law. “I want results, not excuses. So, ensure you dominate and stop the killings,” he urged. On the rationale for the special operation, Okonkwo said it was aimed at addressing the rising spate of killings in parts of Bassa and Riyom LGAs, (NAN) Vanguard News Nigeria GLOBAL Peace and Life Rescue Initiative,GOPRI, a non-profit outfit involved in peacebuilding initiatives across the country, has expressed satisfaction with the efforts of Operation Safe Haven, OPSH in Plateau State. June 25, 2020 In "News" Naked reality staring Nigerians in the face is that our beloved country is at war. But like wildfire, this unconventional warfare has spread to neighbouring countries within the Lake Chad Basin such as Chad, Niger and Cameroon. September 20, 2020 In "Viewpoint" The Special Task Force, Operation Safe Haven (OPSH), maintaining peace in Plateau has arrested one James Dogo, for falsely parading himself as a military personnel. Dogo was arrested alongside one Dotun Shomoye, who specialises in printing  identity cards for fake security personnel. Other 20 suspected criminals, who are between the… September 6, 2020 In "News"