Gov. Adegboyega Oyetola of Osun has commended the role of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) scheme in fostering national unity and integrating the country. Oyetola made the remarks when the NYSC National Governing Board paid him a courtesy visit in his office at Osogbo on Friday. The governor also applauded the scheme for its role in building entrepreneurial values in youths through its mandatory orientation programmes. Oyetola said that the scheme had, over the years, proved to be a major driving force for unity, particularly among the youths. “NYSC is a scheme that is significant to national unity and integration. “It has proved to be a major driving force for unity, particularly among the youths. “There is nothing like religious or ethnic divide. Everyone is simply satisfied to be identified as a corps member. “Apart from fostering national unity and integration, the scheme has become a veritable tool for entrepreneurial training during the orientation programmes, and this is very critical to youth engagement in our country today. “I would like to implore our youths to embrace this opportunity to foster unity across the country and shun violence,” the governor said. Earlier, the head of the NYSC governing board, Mrs Balla Abubakar, appreciated the Osun government for its warmth and responsiveness towards youths within and outside the scheme. Abubakar also commended the ambience of the orientation camp in Osun, which she described as being at 90 per cent completion. Vanguard News Nigeria Gov. Okezie Ikpeazu of Abia says the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), has grown to be an effective tool for national integration and unity. July 26, 2018 In "News" Gov. Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto State has pledged enhanced welfare for corps members posted to the state and support for viable community development projects undertaken by them. August 22, 2019 In "News" The Nigeria Inter-Religious Council (NIREC) has appealed for attitudinal change that would encourage peaceful co-existence among Nigerians, irrespective of religious persuasion. Mrs. Adenike Adeyemi, Director, Press, and Public Relations, National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) disclosed this in a statement in Abuja on Sunday. She said that the Executive Secretary of… November 24, 2019 In "News"