Deputy Whip of the House of Representatives and member representing Isuikwuato/Umunneochi federal constituency (APC), Hon. Nkeiruka Onyejeocha has refuted the media report of her arrest and detention by the operatives of the Department of State Services, DSS. Onyejeocha who made the rebuttal while fielding questions from newsmen in her Ngodo Isuochi country home Friday evening dismissed the media report as “laughable”. Reports of her alleged arrest and detention by DSS has been trending on social media since Thursday. She said she was never involved in any criminal activity to warrant invitation by any security agency let alone being detained. Onyejeocha said the malicious report was planted by her detractors who felt threatened by her rising political profile. She urged members of the public to ignore such unfounded reports intended to distract her and said she was too busy to be distracted by such distractions. “It’s laughable! Did I steal or break any law? Such a thing is only in the imagination of my detractors”, she said. Vanguard News Nigeria ENUGU- A coalition of South East Civil Societies and Human Rights Organisations has opened up campaign for the member representing Isuikwuato/Umunneochi federal constituency, Hon. Nkeiruka Onyejeocha, to become the speaker of the House of Representatives in the coming 9th Assembly, starting from June this year. March 13, 2019 In "News" Umuahia- THE member representing Isuikwuato/Umenneochi Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives, Nkeiruka Onyejeocha, has denied allegations of examination malpractice levelled against her. December 7, 2011 In "News" By Ugochukwu Alaribe, Umuahia Deputy Chief Whip of the House of Representatives, Hon. Nkeiruka Onyejeocha has said that governors are not deploying ecological funds to tackle erosion menaces bedeviling their states. The lawmaker lamented that the federal government releases ecological funds to states monthly, but the state governors rarely tackle… October 29, 2019 In "News"