NO fewer than 37 herdsmen and 5,000 cattle were, yesterday, sacked by the Ondo State Security outfit, codenamed Amotekun, for violating the quit notice of forest reserves by the state government. They were dismissed from the government forest reserves located at Ala, Oda and Ofosu. Governor Rotimi Akeredolu had issued a seven day quit notice to the herdsmen in the government forest reserves across the state. Commander of the state Amotekun Corps, Chief Adetunji Adeleye confirmed the arrest of the herders adding that other herdsmen have met with the Corps and had peacefully moved out of the state. Adeleye said: “Some of them have opted to leave the state because they couldn’t meet with our terms and conditions. “They came through the Chairman of Miyetti Allah in the state. Some opted to go to Osun, Edo and Kogi States. “So our men escorted them to the boundaries of those states. We have to monitor their movements out of the state so that they would not destroy farms on their way out. “About 37 herders have been arrested with about 5, 000 cows. The majority of the herders have been coming to us through their chairman and the Special Adviser to the Governor on Hausa Matters. Vanguard News Nigeria No fewer than 37 herdsmen and 5,000 cattle have been arrested by the Ondo state security outfit codenamed Amotekun for violating the quit notice of forest reserves by the state government. February 4, 2021 In "News" …Northern govs reel out expectations from new service chiefs …Over 4,000 cattle moved out of Ondo as govt starts enforcement of registration …No extension on registration, quit notice – Ondo govt By Dayo Johnson & Johnbosco Agbakwuru GOVERNOR Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano State has called on the Federal Government to… February 1, 2021 In "News" *Miyetti Allah pleads, to meet on next step *Akeredolu acted responsibly —Afenifere *Most okada riders spy for bandits, foreign kidnappers —Oyo Amotekun commandant By Dayo Johnson, Dapo Akinrefon & Deola Badru THE Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria, MACBAN, yesterday, pleaded for more time, as Governor Rotimi Akeredolu issued… January 19, 2021 In "News"