BUA has paid for one million doses of AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccines for Nigeria through the AFREXIM Vaccine programme in partnership with CACOVID. The doses, expected to be delivered by next week, will be the first to Nigeria since the COVID-19 vaccines became available. According to BUA, in a statement by O’tega Ogra, Group Head, Corporate Communications, the vaccines will be distributed free to Nigerians. Speaking on this development, Philanthropist and Founder of BUA, Abdul Samad Rabiu, thanked the President of the Afrexim Bank, Dr. Benedict Oramah for making the purchase possible and the Nigerian Central Bank Governor, Godwin Emefiele, for coordinating the process through the CACOVID private sector partnership. According to him, “BUA decided to secure these one million vaccines by paying the full amount for the vaccines today because these vaccines became available only last week through AFREXIM. “We expect the vaccines to be delivered within the next 14 days and hope priority will be given to our frontline workers who have committed their lives to managing the pandemic. “In addition to this, BUA is committing to purchase five million doses for Nigeria as soon as they become available through this same arrangement.” This development effectively pushes Africa’s most populous nation to the front of the queue in vaccine procurement. Vanguard News Nigeria BUA Group has donated an additional N350,000,000 to CACOVID (the CBN-led Private Sector Coalition on Covid-19) bringing to 1.35 billion Naira its total donation to CACOVID. September 14, 2020 In "Metro" BUA Foundation has donated three ambulances and N200 million to Adamawa State in support of the state's fight against COVID-19. This was as the state governor of the state, Ahmadu Umaru Fintiri, expressed his appreciation to the Chairman of BUA Foundation, Abdul Samad Rabiu for fulfilling a pledge to… July 17, 2020 In "News" BUA Foundation, the philanthropic arm of BUA Group today, announced that it has released N300 million to the presidential task force on Covid-19 to aid logistics and the operations of the taskforce in line with the earlier pledge of Founder/Chairman, Abdul Samad Rabiu. April 30, 2020 In "Business"