Chairman of the South West Governors Forum, Rotimi Akeredolu, has appealed to residents, in particular the Yorubas in Ibadan, Oyo State not to take laws into their hands following the violence that erupted in Shasha. A statement personally signed Saturday night by Governor Akeredolu said the south west governors “note with deep concern, the most unfortunate and avoidable orgy of violence in Shasha, Ibadan, the Oyo State Capital.
.
“As Governor of Ondo State who doubles as Chairman, South West Governors’ Forum, it becomes very compelling for me to address ALL RESIDENTS, in particular, the Yoruba speaking people of our dear region as regards recent happenings bordering on security. “Without doubt, the situation we have found ourselves as a people is most despicable and contends violently against, and abhorrently at variance with the values and hospitality for which our people are known. “We have been known for thoroughness. We have identified with legality over the centuries; and our ethos as a civilised breed of people are such that we do not identify with lawlessness, not even illegality. “ln this regard, we urge all indigenes of the South West to sustain these values and enviable virtues by remaining law abiding. “Our resolve in this direction is not a sign of weakenss; it is indeed, the strongest of all. “ln particular, while I understand the height of provocation in the light of recent happenings as regards Shasha, Ibadan, I, alongside my other brother governors in the region are against willful appropriation of Laws into one’s hands. “We do not support violence and in particular, brigandage, jungle justice and unnecessary self-help. “We note with delight, the efforts of our brother Governor, Engr Seyi Makinde of Oyo State who has taken very bold steps to stave off further escalation of the violence by imposing curfew in the affected areas. “He deserves every support in his avowed commitment towards peace and security in Oyo State. We shall all survive these times and live peacefully, once again in our lands. Vanguard News Nigeria By Rotimi Ojomoyela - Ado-Ekiti Worried at the violent clash between some Yoruba and Hausa traders in Shasha market, Ibadan Oyo State capital at the weekend, Ekiti State Governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi has called on the warring parties to sheath their swords. The violent clash had reportedly led to the… February 13, 2021 In "News" *Miyetti Allah pleads, to meet on next step *Akeredolu acted responsibly —Afenifere *Most okada riders spy for bandits, foreign kidnappers —Oyo Amotekun commandant By Dayo Johnson, Dapo Akinrefon & Deola Badru THE Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria, MACBAN, yesterday, pleaded for more time, as Governor Rotimi Akeredolu issued… January 19, 2021 In "News" GOVERNORS from the South West geo-political zone will converge in Ibadan, Oyo State to address the security challenges confronting the region. June 24, 2019 In "News"