Self-acclaimed freedom fighter, Mr. Sunday Adeyemo, also known as Sunday Igboho, on Tuesday, accused the Federal Government of freezing his bank accounts, following his attack on the killer-herdsmen in Oyo State. Igboho, who spoke to Vanguard, confirmed that all his bank accounts have been frozen by the Federal Government because some people were collecting donations. However, Igboho said he had no hands in the said donations, warning that his accounts must be unfrozen to avoid nationwide protest by youths across the South-West region. His words: “They have frozen my bank accounts because I am fighting a just course. I know Yoruba people are behind me. “I will not relent. I must achieve my aims by putting an end to criminalities in Yorubaland. “If they refuse to release my accounts, there will be serious protests across the South-West. “Yes, the Yoruba are living in fear. They are afraid that the killer-herdsmen might attack them.” Vanguard News Nigeria *I was invited — lgboho *We didn't invite lgboho— Ogun govt By James Ogunnaike CONTROVERSY has continued to trail the visit of a Yoruba rights activist, Chief Sunday Adeyemo, popularly known as Sunday Igboho to Ogun State on Monday. The acclaimed freedom fighter said his visit was to liberate residents… February 4, 2021 In "News" … I’m not fit to disrespect Ooni —Igboho …As supporters raise N4.9m for purchase of buses …He must operate within the law —Tunde Bakare …Stop insulting Yoruba leaders, Agbekoya warns him By Dapo Akinrefon & Shina Abubakar, with agency reports FOLLOWING what many described as an unguarded statement against him… February 5, 2021 In "News" James Ogunnaike - Abeokuta The Yoruba right activist, Sunday Adeyemo, popularly known as Sunday Igboho on Monday stormed Ogun State, insisting that killer-herdsmen must vacate Yorubaland. Igboho, alongside his supporters, arrived at Abeokuta, the state capital, and immediately proceeded to some trouble areas in Yewaland in Ogun West Senatorial district.… February 1, 2021 In "News"