Oil prices rose on Monday, with Brent futures nearing $60 a barrel, boosted by supply cuts among key producers and hopes for further U.S. economic stimulus measures to boost demand. Brent crude LCOc1 for April touched a high of $59.95 a barrel and was at $59.85 by 0041 GMT, up 51 cents, or 0.9%. Front-month prices last hit $60 on Feb. 20, 2020. U.S. West Texas Intermediate crude futures CLc1 advanced 54 cents, or 1%, to $57.39 a barrel, the highest since January last year. “A weak U.S. jobs report boosted hopes of further stimulus measures,” ANZ analysts said, adding that energy products and industrial metals benefited from an increased appetite for risk among investors. A weaker dollar against most currencies on Monday also supported commodities, with dollar-denominated commodities becoming more affordable to holders of other currencies. Meanwhile Saudi Arabia’s pledge of extra supply cuts in February and March on the back of reductions by other members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and its allies, including Russia, is helping to balance global markets. In a sign that prompt supplies are tightening, the six-month Brent spread LCOc1-LCOc7 settled at $2.33 on Friday after hitting a high of $2.44, its widest in a year. Still, stronger crude prices are encouraging U.S. producers to increase output, while anti-coronavirus lockdowns across parts of Europe and Asia are keeping a lid on fuel demand, analysts said. The U.S. oil rig count, an early indicator of future output, rose to its highest since May last week, according to energy services firm Baker Hughes Co. RIG/U. (Reuters) Vanguard News Nigeria Oil prices rose one per cent on Tuesday with benchmark Brent prices hitting a three-month high on hopes for a coordinated approach by major producers to support prices. Brent crude futures were trading at 41.43 dollars a barrel, their highest since Dec. 9, up 59 cents on the day. March 9, 2016 In "Business" The price of brent crude oil rose to 70 dollars a barrel on Monday, supported by ongoing output cuts led by OPEC and Russia, and ignoring a rise in U.S. and Canadian drilling activity that points to higher future output in North America. January 15, 2018 In "Business" Oil prices rose on Thursday after a survey showed OPEC’s commitment to its supply cuts remains in place. February 1, 2018 In "News"