President Muhammadu Buhari has joined millions of Nigerians to congratulate history-making World Trade Organisation Director-General, WTO, Dr Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala on her appointment. The Former Nigeria’s Minister of Finance and former World Bank top executive becomes the first woman to land the trade organisation job. Buhari in a short tweet following the announcement congratulated said: “On behalf of the Federal Government and all Nigerians, I congratulate @NOIweala  on her election as Director-General of the World Trade Organisation, bringing joy and more honour to the country. “I believe her track record of integrity, diligence and passion for development will continue to yield positive results and rewards to mankind, and that she will validate the global mandate of repositioning and strengthening the WTO for the greater good of all.” On behalf of the Federal Government and all Nigerians, I congratulate @NOIweala on her election as Director General of the World Trade Organisation, bringing joy and more honour to the country. — Muhammadu Buhari (@MBuhari) February 15, 2021  Vanguard News Nigeria Idowu Bankole Nigeria's President,  Muhammadu Buhari Monday in Abuja assured Nigeria’s former Minister of Finance and Economy, Dr Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, that the country will explore every opportunity and deploy its entire energy to ensure that she becomes the Director-General of World Trade Organisation (WTO). Dr Okonjo-Iweala is one of two… October 14, 2020 In "News" By Johnbosco Agbakwuru - Abuja President Muhammadu Buhari on Monday promised to contact world leaders for their support for the victory of Dr Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, who is contesting for the position of Director-General of the World Trade Organization, WTO. President Buhari, who made the promise when he met behind closed… October 12, 2020 In "News" …Promises to lobby World leaders for their support ….Put a smile on my face—Okonjo-Iweala begs President By Johnbosco Agbakwuru PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari on Monday promised to contact world leaders for their support for the victory of Dr. Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, who is contesting for the position of Director-General of the World… October 12, 2020 In "News"