SCARCITY of petroleum products may hit residents of Kwara State as from this weekend as the state chapter of Independent Petroleum Marketers Association of Nigeria, IPMAN, said its members will from today suspend sale of fuel and petroleum products to members of the public in the state. The association said its action is informed by the recent unfriendly policy of the Pipelines and Product Marketing Company, PPMC, a subsidiary of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, NNPC. Chairman of IPMAN in the state, Alhaji Abdulateef Kamaja, while addressing a press conference in Ilorin, yesterday, said stakeholders were not duly consulted before rolling out the NNPC recent e-payment policy tagged customers express payment that “directs marketers to provide some other prerequisites like bulk purchase agreement renewal, BPA, the procurement involves high cost and a lot of bureaucratic bottlenecks.” Alhaji Kamaja, therefore, urged the PPMC to rescind the decision, noting that it is too sudden as the marketers were not consulted. He added: “The implementation was also so sudden that no marketer could have made any effort to comply with NNPC guidelines. This, to us, is viewed as a means to paralyse IPMAN members’ efforts to contribute to national economic development. Before the introduction of the present policy there had been many paid tickets from marketers running to billions of Naira in the coffers of the NNPC which were not attended to. “Several factors like network failure and inability of marketers to have code payment militated against the former procedure. It is hereby wished that the current directive is abrogated pending a proper consultation and deliberation with marketers. It is imperative for the NNPC to always consult with the marketers before bringing up any policy as this will ensure harmonious and peaceful relationship between it and the marketers who act as the bridge to the consuming masses.” “If our herein stated suggestions are not met we may have no option than to down tools by closing down our stations.” THE Management of Pipelines and Products Marketing Company, PPMC, has blamed the lingering scarcity of premium motor spirit, PMS, otherwise called petrol across the country on lack of payment of subsidy claims to oil marketers. April 8, 2014 In "Energy" Independent petroleum marketers in Lagos State have threatened to withdraw their services from Dec. 11 over NNPC’s breach of bulk purchase agreement to sell fuel to them at N133.28k per litre. November 29, 2017 In "News" INDEPENDENT Petroleum Marketers Association of Nigeria, IPMAN, Benin, Edo State branch, is to partner with Edo State government to set up an Independent Power Plant, IPP, in Benin. July 8, 2010 In "News"