Suspected Fulani herdsmen have reportedly killed a 48-year-old, Dayo lbiye, a cousin to the Senior Special Assistant to the Ondo State Governor Rotimi Akeredolu on new Media, Gani Muhammed Ajowa. The deceased, said to be the father of seven was strangled to death in his farm located at Ajowa Akoko, in Akoko North West council area of the state. Confirming the death of his cousin by the herdsmen, the governor’s aide said suspected killers invaded his farm with their cows in a bid to feed them. The deceased reportedly pleaded with them that the herders should not allow their cattle destroy his farmland but they insisted that they would have to feed the cattle. Ajowa said that the herders told the deceased pointedly that they have the right to feed their cattle with his crops and that he cannot stop them. The herders, after a shouting march with the deceased according to him threatened him and the left the farm only to return the second day to attack him with machete He added that after inflicting several matchete cut injuries on him and he didn’t die, they resulted to strangled him. Vanguard gathered that he was strangled by four suspected herdsmen. A post by Gani Ajowa on his Facebook page said: “Fulani herders just killed my first cousin on his farm in Ajowa. “Dayo Ibiye, you were a man, how they got you is a surprise.” Vanguard gathered that the combined security team including Amotekun have arrested one of the killers. The governor’s aide said the matter had been reported at the Divisional Police Officer in Okeagbe in Akoko North West When contacted, the Police image maker Tee Leo lkoro, confirmed the murder of the farmer. Ikoro said that police detectives have commenced investigations into the killing. He promised that the killers would be arrested and made to face the music. Vanguard News Nigeria THE rapacious activities of herdsmen in the South-West have left tales of woes and many persons, including aged farmers, hacked to death on their farms while their wives and female children are not only raped but also butchered and vital body parts carted away. February 18, 2018 In "Crime Guard" We have paid some leaders for our settlements in the community — spokesperson Dayo Johnson - Akure Anxiety enveloped Ajowa Akoko in Akoko North West council area of Ondo state last weekend over the occupation of the community by over 200 Fulani herdsmen. The herdsmen reportedly invaded the community in… December 30, 2019 In "News" Speaking with Sunday vanguard, a friend of the deceased, Madam Bolanle Raheem, 65, said the victim was gruesomely murdered and vital parts of her body taken away by the herdsmen January 28, 2018 In "Metro"