The Chattered Institute of Stockbrokers (CIS) has commenced moves to review its code of ethics and standard of professional conduct to strengthen the members’ professional practice, enhance their relationship with investors and restore confidence in the market. As a prelude, a Committee, which comprises eight people, has been inaugurated to review the existing code of Ethics which has been operational for ten years. The Committee members will also update the code of ethics in line with the present realities in the global financial market. The Committee’s Chairman, Vanguard learnt is Mr. Ariyo Olushekun,   Mr. Jude Chiemeka, Vice Chairman while Mr. Adedeji Ajadi is the Secretary. Other members are Alhaji Isayku Tilde, Prof. Helen Andow,   Dr. Tayo Bello,   Mr. Mai Moustapha Muhammed   and Mr. Olasunkanmi Iranloye. The Institute’s president, Mr Olatunde Amolegbe, who described the Committee’s members as professionals, charged them to leverage   their education, experience and professional   approach to produce a better and current ethical codes for the institute. According to him, the Institute has rules that guide the conduct of our members and their relationship with the clients. Similarly, the Chairman of the Ad Hoc Committee on ethical code, Mr. Ariyo Olushekun said the ethical code was due for renewal with the current reality in the capital market ecosystem and more so, for the CIS to operate in line with global best practices. An Ad-hoc committee has been constituted by the leadership of the Lagos State House of Assembly to look into the circumstances leading to the impeachment of the former Deputy Governor of the State, Mr. Femi Pedro, in May 2007, during the 5th Assembly. July 3, 2015 In "News" The Association of Telecommunications Companies of Nigeria (ATCON) on Wednesday said that the code of ethics for practitioners in the industry would be ready by the second quarter of 2013. February 20, 2013 In "News" The Institute of Directors (IoD) Nigeria, says it will launch the reversed version of its Code of Ethics for sound corporate governance by August 6, 2020. July 27, 2020 In "Business"