Ogun State Governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun has said that the Olabisi Onabanjo University Teaching Hospital (OOUTH), Sagamu, would soon receive a facelift, as rehabilitation work would soon commence in the hospital. The expected turnaround of the hospital would include the rehabilitation of the Accident and Emergency Wards, replacement of beds as well as the refurbishment of the in and out-patients’ areas. Speaking in his office while receiving members of the Governing Board of the Hospital, led by its Chairman, Dr Kunle Hassan, Prince Abiodun said his administration would also digitize the hospital’s records for easy capturing and management of data. “We are committed to some immediate actions like the refurbishment of the ikkjjuyhn and out-patient areas in the hospital. We are also going to replace all the beds, refurbish the Accident and Emergency Wards, which are the immediate needs of the hospital at the moment. “We will also go to digitalise the hospital records by embracing electronic hospital recording model, so as to ensure that data capturing and management is a lot easier for the hospital. Digitising our records will also inform future development around the services provided by our hospitals in the future. Governor Abiodun pledged his support to the Board and said that his administration’s desire was to take the hospital back to the era when it was one of the best in the country. “I have reassured the Board that they have the full support of this administration, so they can achieve their set objectives. I can see that the Board is determined to be efficient, effective and it means that they would ensure that the people derive value from every Kobo spent in that hospital,” he said. The governor while charging the Board to translate their report into short and medium-term feasible objectives, expressed joy with their findings and recommendations, which he said would bring about a new improved teaching hospital. Earlier in his remarks, the Chairman of the Governing Board, Dr Kunle Hassan, noted that the Board has diligently looked at ways of effecting the needed changes in the hospital, calling for support from the State government to succeed. Vanguard News Nigeria Dr. Peter Adefuye,  the Chief Medical Director, Olabisi Onabanjo University Teaching Hospital (OOUTH), Sagamu, on Friday canvassed for increased budgetary allocation to the hospital. Adefuye said this while hosting members of the Ogun House of Assembly Committee on Health who were on an oversight visit to the hospital in Sagamu.… September 13, 2019 In "Health" Doctors under the aegis of the Association of Resident Doctors in Olabisi Onabanjo University Teaching Hospital (OOUTH), Sagamu in Ogun have called off their indefinite strike. September 10, 2019 In "News" The Ogun state governor, Dapo Abiodun has approved the immediate recruitment of residents doctors of the Olabisi Onabanjo University Teaching Hospital, Sagamu in order to stop them from embarking on an indefinite strike. September 2, 2019 In "News"