The National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, has called for peace among all ethnic, tribal and religious groups in Nigeria. Tinubu made the call on Friday, during the Eighth-Day Fidau Prayer for the late Alhaji Lateef Jakande, the first Civilian Governor of Lagos State. He said that the country was facing a crisis but all needed to live in harmony and give peace a chance. ”Nigeria is currently facing a crisis; a crisis of insurgency, banditry in all aspects of security, but God Almighty that made this country as one of the largest and most resourceful country will protect us. ”I appeal, in his memory today, for us not to turn whatever challenges we are facing right now into ethnic, tribal and religion crises. ”If there is a crisis, where do we go? We will submerge the entire West Africa, there will be no enough space to accommodate us. ”Those who have seen the effect of war, the effect of tribal conflict, of religion conflict, will never want it for Nigeria. “We pray to God to strengthen our mind, guide our faith, put peace and bring peace unto this land, may Allah bless all of us,” Tinubu said. He said that the clerics were very critical in the present situation, urging them for their prayers, commitment, fasting, all the sermons geared toward peace and stability in the country. According to him, the death of the first civilian governor, Jakande is not just a loss to the family, but Lagos in general. Tinubu said that Lagos and Nigeria at large were lucky to have a man like Alhaji Lateef Jakande, drawing from his wealth of knowledge. ”Today, he is no more but he is still existing to the eternity, we pray for Lagos State, we pray for Nigeria to give us more people, more leaders that are prudent, honest, that give priority to the world in the future,” he said. Political Activist, Timi Frank, has called on a former Governor of Lagos State and national leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, "to speak up in defence of the Yoruba race now under fierce attacks by herdsmen, bandits and kidnappers." This is even as the former… February 15, 2021 In "News" THERE is no doubt that the job given to former governor of Lagos State, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu to reconcile aggrieved members of the All Progressives Congress, APC, across the country remains a Herculean task. February 16, 2018 In "News" LAGOS—NATIONAL Leader of the All Progressives Congress, APC, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, yesterday, donated N200 million as part of efforts in fighting the scourge of coronavirus. March 30, 2020 In "News"