Chairman of the South West Governors Forum Rotimi Akeredolu has declared that the governors in the region would fight criminality with every legal means. Akeredolu equally dismissed the views held by some Northern governors and leaders that Amotekun was established to tackle ethnic nationality or business. The chairman who doubled as the Ondo state governor said this during his second term inauguration lecture held in Akure. “What we have set out to do in the South Western States is not targeted at any ethnic nationality or business. “But we are against criminality and we shall fight criminality with every legal means. “It is in the interest of our collective wellbeing. All we require is the support and understanding of all Federating Units, including the Federal Government. “The simple truth is that we have lived in self-denial amid an excruciating pain that is almost cancerous now. “Notwithstanding our challenges today, my firm belief in the Nigerian Project is strengthened by my own fact of a true Nigerian. “That I desire a more United Nigeria with every ingredient of freedom, rule of law, patriotism, love, mutual respect and harmony is an understatement. Akeredolu said that “I am prepared to fight for it legitimately for the benefit of all. “Today, the most potent threat to national belief is insecurity. ” And because we have allowed a sustained, non-beneficial stagnation for too long in our approach, the consequences are increasingly becoming more daring. “The time to act is now, not tomorrow. As leaders, the choices we make create the path to our desires. “We cannot pretend that all is well when indeed, more things are going wrong. “Today, rather than our Nation, Nigerians are more inclined to ethnic nationalism. “We have resorted to clannish satisfaction in place of nation-building. “We are gradually and unconsciously replacing national patriotism with sectional activism. “No one, I repeat, no one should be blamed. Our very faulty and twisted federalism is responsible. “Regrettably, even those with palpable national passion and patriotism are today, gradually tilting to the unintended ethnic nationality cabin. Akeredolu added that “Most Nigerians are losing faith in our “Unity in Diversity” sloganeering, but there is an opportunity to restore national consciousness through true federalism. It hurts none, it pays all. Vanguard News Nigeria *Show the world that you’re father of all, Ondo monarchs tell Buhari *YSG, Ondo lawmakers, Agunloye, others speak *Your overt support for Miyetti Allah may destroy Nigeria, SMBLF tells FG *How Akeredolu reactivated 1969 Cattle Trade Law *50,000 farmers registered in four years – Agric commissioner Dayo Johnson, Regional Editor,… January 22, 2021 In "News" Following incessant attacks by armed herdsmen and kidnapping in the South Western part of the country, the governors in the six states making up the region resolved to set up a regional security outfit, Western Nigeria Security Network codenamed Operation Amotekun aimed at enhancing security in the region. March 7, 2020 In "News" …Says no more night, under-aged grazing in S-West …S-West govs, Jigawa, Kebbi back Akeredolu’s quit order …Ondo gov was misconstrued—Fayemi …Crime has no ethnic colour — Oyetola, Makinde …Don’t negotiate with Myetti Allah, Yoruba leaders warn S-West govs …Insecurity: S-West can’t tackle herdsmen crisis alone -– NEF …We can’t live… January 26, 2021 In "News"