The leadership crisis rocking Tangale community in Biliri Local Government of Gombe is fast taking an alarming shape as it’s alleged that the Fulanis are mobilising to launch an stack against the predominantly Christian community. The candidate alleged to be imposed is a Muslim and claimed to be of Tangale lineage. I haven’t heard of any reports that he is Fulani. Recall there were earier reports in the media on Friday that Tangale kingdom maybe taken over by the Fulanis. The Fulanis as at Friday night had quietly relocated their wives from Tangale to keep them safe to alkegedly unleash mayhem in Ta…
[21:19, 2/20/2021] Mr Femi: Kindly help on this !!!!
[21:50, 2/20/2021] Mr Femi: Biliri crisis: Fulanis in Gombe allegedly mobilise to attack Tangale indigenes over leadership tussle
..as Christians point accusation finger at Gov Inuwa The leadership crisis rocking Tangale community in Biliri Local Government of Gombe is fast taking an alarming shape as it’s alleged that the Fulanis are mobilising to launch an attack against the predominantly Christian community. The candidate alleged to be imposed is a Muslim and claimed to be of Tangale lineage. I haven’t heard of any reports that he is Fulani. Recall there were earier reports in the media on Friday that Tangale kingdom maybe taken over by the Fulanis. The Fulanis as at Friday night had quietly relocated their wives from Tangale to keep them safe to alkegedly unleash mayhem in Tangale. The youth and women had protested the alleged imposition of a Fulani after Dr Idris Maiyemba had polled 55votes in a selection carried out by the Tangale chiefdom.
Sources close to the Biliri citizens agitation movement against a minority opposition told newsmen that the state Governor claimed he had a choice to make out of the three selected. The candidate alleged to be imposed is a Muslim and claimed to be of tangale lineage. I haven’t heard of any reports that he is Fulani. His choice according to the source is most likely going to be the Fulani who has no claim to the throne. This the source said may lead to an unnecessary bloodshed if not properly handled. A trending video online indicates that the alleged imposition of a Muslim of minority extraction in Tangale a predominantly Christian community in Gombe State as King has generated mixed feelings that the women went on protest on Thursday. The protest which started at midday on Thursday led to the blockage… February 21, 2021 In "News" …urges Gombe Gov not to toy with people's choice By Ibrahim HassanWuyo The Northern States Christian Elders Forum (NOSCEF), has expressed worry over the delay in announcing the new Mai Tangale in Gombe state. NOSCEF said it's been closely following developments in Gombe state, as it concerns the appointment of… February 20, 2021 In "News" BARELY two weeks after the former Accountant_General of the Federation (AGF), Alh Ibrahim Dankwanmbo won the gubernatorial ticket of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Gombe State, there is a row in the state PDP over the choice of his running mate in the 2011 elections. January 25, 2011 In "Politics"