The Senate has begun the screening of the immediate past Service Chiefs behind closed doors. The former Service Chiefs appeared today (Thursday), for screening as non-career ambassadorial nominees, arriving at the National Assembly complex at exactly 11.32 am. Upon their arrival, they went straight to the office of the Senior Special Assistant to the President on National Assembly Matters (Senate), Senator Babajide Omoworare, who immediately led them to the hearing room. When it was 12 o’clock, the time the screening was to start, Chairman of Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs, Senator Adamu Muhammad Bulkachuwa(APC, Bauchi North) ordered for an executive session with the members of the committee who were present. Executive sessions were designed to address and harmonise opinions to avoid issues that are likely to trigger controversies. The immediate past Service Chiefs were nominated as non-career ambassadorial nominees by President Muhammadu Buhari about two weeks of their voluntary retirement from service. The former Service Chiefs, who were appointed ambassador-designates are retired Chief of  Defence Staff,  Abayomi Olonisakin; former Chief of Army Staff, Tukur Buratai; former Navy Chief, Ibok-Ete Ekwe Ibas, and former Chief of Air Staff, Sadique Abubakar. Vanguard News Nigeria PRIOR to Thursday, 22 October, the political atmosphere was tensed, intrigues, backstabbing, high wired politics were at play, making many become skeptical of the entire political system. It was like when the time comes, the building of the red chambers of the National Assembly would collapse; the Senate will not… October 24, 2015 In "News" * Says it is  not loosing sleep on the request.   By Henry Umoru   AHEAD of the screening and subsequent confirmation of immediate past Service Chiefs whose names have been forwarded to the Senate by President Muhammadu Buhari, the Presidency said yesterday that it was not lobbying… February 8, 2021 In "News" By Henry Umoru, Assistant Political Editor After 48 days at home following the Christmas and New Year holiday, the Senate will resume Tuesday, February 9, 2021 to face the challenges of legislating for the country and ensuring that good governance is in place. In line with the Senate legislative Calendar,… February 7, 2021 In "Politics"