Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Mr. Femi Adesina, said, yesterday, that the position of the president on the farmers and herders clash, and the recent killings in the country, is that anybody bearing arms unlawfully must be arrested and prosecuted. Adesina said this, while responding to a question on farmers and herders clash in the country, during a television programme, tagged: Politics Today on Channels Television. The President’s spokesman restated that the position of the president has always been the same on the farmers and herders clash. He said: “If the governor would say that he hasn’t heard the president speak on that matter, that’s what he should make clear. It is not that the president hasn’t spoken, because a number of times, the president has spoken on that issue. “His position has always been the same. Anybody that carries arms unlawfully should be arrested and prosecuted. “The president has said it countless times and that is the position. Whoever he is, wherever he comes from, criminality is criminality; anybody bearing arms unlawfully must be arrested and prosecuted.” Vanguard News Nigeria By Chioma Onuegbu Senior Special Assistant to Governor Udom Emmanuel of Akwa Ibom state on Security Matters, Capt. Iniobong Ekong (retd) has said that the recent killing of two farmers in the state by Herders were cases of misunderstanding. Ekong made the assertion yesterday in Uyo while fielding questions from… October 7, 2019 In "News" …As Presidency drives peace talks between S-West govs, Miyetti Allah …Police, Oyo govt delegation visit Ibarapa to broker peace between Fulani, Igangan residents …Police vow to arrest culprits in violence, arson …Arrest 3 suspected herdsmen in Ogun …Why Ibarapa residents rejected Fulani herders— Sunday Igboho …Why I’ve been silent —… January 25, 2021 In "News" SENIOR Special Assistant, Media and Publicity to the President, Mallam Garba Shehu, said yesterday that there was need to stop herdsmen from roaming all over the country to prevent clashes with farmers. Shehu spoke when he featured on Sunrise Daily, a Channels Television programme. The presidential spokesman was responding to… December 23, 2020 In "News"