Governor Okezie Ikpeazu has assured that the on-going  Eziukwu Cemetery Road which has been abandoned for close to three decades would be fully recovered under his watch. Speaking when he paid a working visit to the project at the Eziukwu Road by Ehi Road end of the road, the Governor stated that his resolve to re-write the history of infrastructure in Aba was fully on course. The Governor noted that the target is to push the project to terminate at the Cemetery Market Aba because of the critical role played by the market in the economy of Aba and Abia State. He tasked the contractor to strictly adhere to all laid down specifications in the design of the project. The governor further asked the contractor to expand the scope of the project to include the fixing of all adjoining junctions which terminated at Eziukwu Road. The affected adjourning junctions include Market road, Cameroon road, Ehi Road junctions. Ikpeazu  assured of his readiness to accommodate variations in the contract for the purpose of these additions. Executive Chairmen of Aba South, Aba North and Obingwa LGAs, Hon. Clinton Ebere, Hon. Prince David Ikonne and Hon. Micheal Ibe Nwoke were part of the Governor’s entourage during the visit. Vanguard News Nigeria By Ugochukwu Alaribe - Umuahia In continuation of his urban renewal project, Abia State Governor, Dr. Okezie Ikpeazu has commissioned 4 roads in Abia. Among the roads commissioned include Ojike Lane, Eziukwu road, Chisco Link, and Milverton Avenue, all in Aba South council. Speaking during the commissioning, the Governor said,… January 22, 2021 In "News" Governor Okezie Ikpeazu of Abia state has hinted at relocating the popular luxury bus terminal at Milverton Street in Aba, to decongest traffic in the city center. Ikpeazu disclosed this on Monday in Aba while inspecting ongoing road construction work on Eziukwu Road, Milverton Road, and Ojike Lane. The governor… January 12, 2021 In "News" Governor Okezie Ikpeazu of Abia State has officially opened for public use four roads in the economic hub of Aba including Eziukwu Road, Milverton Avenue, Ojike Lane and Chisco Link Road, all in Aba South Local Government Area of the state. January 23, 2021 In "Politics"