President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko handed over the reins of the country’s Olympic committee to his son on Friday, days after the IOC hinted it might ban its flag from the Tokyo Games. Lukashenko, 67, who had headed Belarus’ National Olympic Committee (NOC) since 1967, promised that he would not be running for another term. He added that his son Viktor, who was vice-president of the NOC, would be removed from his role of presidential adviser for national security once he was formally elected. “If it suits you, I give you my eldest son and I promise you that there will be no theft, corruption, or embezzlement of money,” Lukashenko said in a video released by his press service. The move comes after December’s decision by the global governing body IOC to ban both Lukashenkos from Olympic events over the NOC’s targeting of athletes for their political views. This week, IOC President Thomas Bach raised the possibility of the Belarusian flag being banned from this summer’s Games as punishment. Lukashenko’s disputed re-election to a sixth term in August led to the most serious political crisis in Belarus’ modern history, with protesters taking to the streets and authorities cracking down on the opposition. A number of prominent Belarusian athletes have supported Lukashenko’s critics and demanded an end to the crackdown. The turmoil has also led to Belarus being stripped of the this year’s ice hockey world championship. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria Demonstrators descended on the Belarusian capital on Monday for a ninth night of protests against strongman leader Alexander Lukashenko, who was heckled by factory workers as pressure grows on him to step down. Several thousand protesters gathered at Independence Square in central Minsk, waving the red-and-white flag of the opposition,… August 18, 2020 In "Foreign" Tens of thousands of Belarusian opposition supporters gathered for the largest protest rally in recent history in Minsk as President Alexander Lukashenko rejected calls to step down in a defiant speech. Crowds of protesters marched through the streets to the central Independence Square on Sunday, with an AFP journalist estimating… August 17, 2020 In "Foreign" Belarus on Wednesday confirmed the death of a jailed protester as demonstrators took to the streets for a fourth night of clashes with riot police over a disputed presidential election. Riot police have roughly detained thousands at street protests across the country after long-serving leader Alexander Lukashenko claimed a landslide… August 13, 2020 In "Foreign"