Chairman of Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Bomadi local government area, Delta state, Prince Opuofoni, has berated the leadership style of the All Progressives Congress, APC, saying that Nigeria’s economic woes were a result of the party’s ineptitude. Opuofoni stated this Monday at Bomadi, during the inaugural ceremony of the PDP Local Government Campaign Committee for the March 6 Local Government Election in the state. He tasked Nigerians to vote out the APC at the centre, stressing “they are causing hunger and starvation in the country”. He said: “Nigeria is suffering because APC is at the centre; the leadership of APC are causing hunger and starvation in the country. “Don’t give them even one vote both at the local government election and during the 2023 general elections”, he said. Handing over party flags to party candidates, chairman of PDP, Delta South Senatorial District, Chief Julius Takeme, noted that victory was sure for the party to come March 6. However, the composition of the 40-man campaign committee includes a two times commissioner of the state, Barr David Ekereokosu as Director-general, Hon. Pius Labo as secretary, Hon. Franklin Edonkumoh, Hon. P.C. Embelegha among others. Vanguard News Nigeria Deputy Majority Leader, Delta State House of Assembly, Mr. Kenneth Preyor, has appealed to the people of Bomadi constituency to return him to the legislature in 2019. August 15, 2018 In "News" BOMADI – THE People’s Democratic Party, PDP, in Bomadi, Bomadi Local Government Area, has bestowed an honorary doctorate degree, Ph.D, in road construction and empowerment of rural communities on the lawmaker representing the Bomadi/Patani Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives, Hon. Nicholas Mutu. August 14, 2018 In "News" DELTA State Independent Electoral Commission, DSIEC, has announced Chief Oluwole Karetimi’s as the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, chairmanship flag bearer for Bomadi Local Government Area in the forthcoming council elections in the state. September 5, 2014 In "News"