Responding, the Spokesperson of Lagos State Command, CSP Muyiwa Adejobi said two suspects have been arrested and dangerous weapons were recovered in connection with the Ebute-Metta violence. He confirmed that the suspected cultists attacked individuals, dispossessed them of their valuables and damaged property in the area. The Spokesperson  gave the suspects’ names as Tunde Rosanye, male, 39 and Muyideen Ayede, male, 20 while items recovered included one locally-made short gun, some live and expended cartridges, two cutlasses, three knives, one mobile phone and small bag. Adejobi said the suspects have given useful information to the Police and efforts are on to apprehend other fleeing members of the gang. As at 7.45pm, the Spokesperson said normalcy has returned to the area. He said, ” The lagos state police command has restored normalcy to Herbert Marcauly/Ondo Street, Ebute Metta area, where some suspected cultists attacked individuals, dispossessed them of their valuables and damaged property as two suspects have been arrested by the police with dangerous weapons. Today Wednesday 24th February, 2021, at about 11am some suspected cultists fomented troubles at the above areas creating fears in the minds of innocent Lagosians. Policemen were deployed to the areas and arrested two suspects. The suspects are Tunde Rosanye, m, 39 and Muyideen  Ayede, m, 20. Items recovered from them included one locally-made short gun, some live and expended cartridges, 2 cutlasses, 3 knives, one mobile phone and a small bag. The suspects have given useful information to the police and efforts are on to apprehend other fleeing members of the gang. The Commissioner of Police, Lagos State, CP Hakeem Odumosu, while assuring Lagosians that all hands will be on deck to consistently fight crimes and criminality, especially cultims and gangsterism in the state, ordered that the suspects be moved to the State Criminal Investigation Department, Panti, Yaba,  for proper investigation, and that other members of the gang must be brogugh to book,” said the Spokesperson. Vanguard News Nigeria The Police Command in Lagos State said it has arrested 12 suspects in connection with the clash between some youths in the Aguda area of Surulere on Sunday. This is contained in a statement made available to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) and signed by the Command’s Public Relations… January 25, 2021 In "News" By Bose Adelaja Lagos State Police Command, on Thursday, arrested five suspected hoodlums over the crisis which erupted in Obalende, Ikoyi area of Lagos state. The violence had occurred at about 8am among some members of the transport unions in the area. Lagos State Police however swung into action and… February 11, 2021 In "News" The Police Command in Lagos State has arrested seven suspected members of a secret society, Eiye Confraternity, operating at Agura, Ikorodu area of the state. The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), SP Olumuyiwa Adejobi, said in a statement in Lagos on Sunday that the suspects attacked some vigilantees in… November 30, 2020 In "News"