AN unidentified female cook and two others were, yesterday, arrested in connection with the kidnapping of one Emmanuel Piopio, who was abducted at Agbarho in Ughelli North Local Government Area of Delta State. The victim, according to police sources, was abducted last Sunday along Ekwerhe Road, Agbarho after which the kidnappers contacted one of his family members demanding a ransom for his release. The hoodlums were said to have taken the victim in his white Lexus ES350 saloon car with number plate, KWL 663 BB, to an unknown destination from where they initiated the ransom negotiation with his family. A police source at the Agbarho police station gave the names of the two male suspects as Ogaga Champion from Ododegho community and Evans Emogariemu from Oruorakpo community, all in Ughelli North Local Government Area of the state. Though efforts to speak with the state Police Public Relations Officer were fruitless, the source, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said: “After the victim was kidnapped, the matter was lodged at the Agbarho police station. “Following intelligence information in partnership with the army and operatives of the Vigilante Group of Nigeria, we were able to track the mobile number of one of the suspects. “The arrest of the suspect further led to the arrest of other gang members at their den located inside the forest of Ophori-Agbarho community in Agbarho where the victim was being held. “We were also able to rescue the victim, who had already spent roughly two days in the den of the kidnappers while efforts are currently on towards the arrest of other fleeing members of the gang.” Vanguard News Nigeria By Perez Brisibe   UGHELLI – AN unidentified female cook and two others were yesterday morning arrested in connection with the kidnapping of one Emmanuel Piopio who was abducted at Agbarho in Ughelli North local government area of Delta State.   The victim according to police sources was abducted… February 9, 2021 In "News" The kidnappers forced the don, who had some health challenges to march with four other kidnap victims from Eku to Agbarho on foot, along an abandoned Federal Government railway line project to their hideaway located in the heart of Orhokpokpo –Agbarho forest from 10.00p.m. to 5.00a.m. under torture. The fragmentary… May 31, 2016 In "Human Angle" KOKORI—Police at Isiokolo Division in Ethiope East Local Government Area of Delta State, have gunned down a suspected kidnapper and rescued a female victim abducted August 8 at Ovwian-Aladja. August 11, 2015 In "News"