Nollywood actress Tonto Dikeh’s ex-husband Churchill Olakunle has introduced his former personal assistant (P.A), Rosy Meurer as his new wife. Meurer was at the centre of Churchill’s divorce brouhaha with Tonto who alleged that he was having an extra marital affair with Meurer, his then P.A. in 2017. Meurer later came out to debunk the allegations. Churchill, in a birthday message penned to Meurer on Monday, on his official Instagram handle @olakunlechurchill, addressed Meurer as Mrs. Churchill. Below are extracts from the handle: “A special sunrise, on this precious day, a great woman was born. During my hard times when depression would have taken the better part of me, you were my bedrock,” “When it was like the whole world was against me, you stood by me, even took some missiles because of me.’’ “When I thought I lost it all, you encouraged me to hope in God that He will give me back all l have lost.” “Happy birthday Mrs. Churchill. Age with grace, l have got your back 24/7 by the special grace of God” Vanguard News Nigeria By Juliet Ebirim Ex-husband of popular Nollywood actress, Tonto Dikeh, Olakunle Churchill has confirmed his marriage to another actress, Rosy Meurer. Recall that Tonto once called out Rosy in an interview for allegedly sleeping with her ex-husband and being the main issue behind their split. The accusations were however denied… February 15, 2021 In "Entertainment" DESPITE the crisis rocking his marriage, Tonto Dikeh’s estranged hubby, Olakunle Churchill, shocked many critics, Tuesday, when he unveiled popular singer, Praiz Adejo, as one of his foundation, Big Church Foundation, ambassadors for the 2017 project year.The signing of the deal was done at the Ikoyi, Lagos boardroom of the… February 24, 2017 In "Entertainment" Tonto Dikeh, the popular Nigerian actress with a broken home has again accused her estranged husband, Oladunni Churchill who is also the cousin to former President Olusegun Obasanjo, of being a murderer and a 'yahoo boy' who has murdered their unborn child. March 12, 2017 In "Entertainment"