The Nigerian superstar, Davido hit another milestone as he was named one of the next 100 most influential people in the world for 2021 by Time Magazine. Davido in his reaction wrote on his social media platforms: ‘Proud to be included in the inaugural #TIME100Next list”. Meanwhile, the excerpt for the selection of Davido was written by Nigerian rapper and BBNaija Lockdown season 5 winner Laycon, according to the magazine. It reads, “Davido is one of the biggest voices in Afrobeats because his music connects with people, often in ways that transcend his expectations. “When he released the song “FEM” in 2020, a title that loosely translates to “shut up” in Yoruba, he didn’t know it would become a major #EndSARS protest anthem. “The youths banded together to demand the government take action to end police brutality in Nigeria last October. “Officials responded by sending politicians to give speeches. We told the government to keep quiet unless they had something sensible to add to the ethos of “FEM” which was directly relatable at that moment. “You can tell Davido puts 100% into every song he makes. And the results are clear: his album A Good Time`’ surpassed a billion streams in 2020. “Afrobeats is a worldwide phenomenon and Davido is one of many Nigerian artists who has made that possible.” More and more artists, from Nicki Minaj to Young Thug, want to work with him. Davido’s song ‘IF’ which recently sold 500,000 copies in the U.S,  has been certified gold. Other Nigerians on the list include like Odun Eweniyi, FK Abudu and Dami Odufuwa. (NAN) Vanguard News Nigeria Award-winning Nigerian talent TENI THE ENTERTAINER has joined forces with Afrobeats star, Davido on a new single; an emotion-tinged slice of Afrobeats titled ‘For You'; which sees Teni and Davido trade pitch-perfect vocals amongst poignant acoustic production. Aptly reflected in the similarly touching official video where we see Teni… February 12, 2021 In "Entertainment" The past few days have been rather tumultuous and unsettling for Nigerian hip hop singer, David Adeleke popularly known as Davido with three of his friends being turned up dead by the police after a night of a birthday drinking binge of one of them, identified as Tagbo October 14, 2017 In "Music" It is no longer news that David Adeleke, aka ‘Davido’, has been the talk of the town for sometime now. The HKN boss has taken his career a notch higher by signing a deal with Sony BMG Music. The 23-year-old millionaire announced this news himself on his twitter handle onThursday. January 23, 2016 In "Entertainment"