AS flames of violence and other forms of lives guzzling insecurity flicker in many parts of the country, Nigeria has literally become a killing field. In the first six weeks of 2021, lives of no fewer than 1,525 persons have been wasted across the country, Vanguard’s investigation, and data obtained from the Nigeria Security Tracker, NST, a project of the Council on Foreign Relations’ Africa programme, have shown. The Nigeria Security Tracker tracks violence that is both causal and symptomatic of Nigeria’s political instability and citizen alienation. The data are based on weekly surveys of Nigerian and international media. The 1,525-death figure, which is conservative, covers only reported cases arising from the Boko Haram insurgency, banditry, herdsmen crisis, kidnapping, communal and cult clashes, armed robbery, and brutality of security agents among others. Many security breaches are not reported. It is also difficult to tell the number of abducted victims who die in captivity as unconfirmed reports put the number of those in various kidnap dens across the country at over 5000. The 1,525 deaths are about half of the 3,188 lives lost between January and December 2019, according to a report by Global Rights. It is also four times the 348 people killed in violent attacks across Nigeria in December 2020, as reported by a non-governmental organisation, Nigeria Mourns. Currently, Nigeria is the third country most impacted by terrorism, going by the Global Terrorism Index 2020 after Afghanistan and Libya. The 2020 terrorism index report said though total deaths from terrorism in Nigeria fell to 1,245 in 2019, a 39 per cent decrease from the prior year, terror-related incidents also fell by 27 per cent, marking the lowest level of terrorist violence in Nigeria since 2011. Boko Haram, Nigeria’s deadliest terrorist group, recorded an increase in terrorist activity mainly targeted at civilians by 25 per cent from the prior year. Additionally, Fulani extremists were responsible for 26 per cent of terror-related deaths in Nigeria at 325 fatalities. The herdsmen crisis is one of the reasons the county is boiling now following prevailing incidents in many southern states especially Oyo, Ondo and Ogun. Deaths in the states Of the country’s 36 states, and the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, only three had zero reported deaths linked to insecurity. The states are Bayelsa, Bauchi, and Kebbi. The most deadly states are Kaduna (409), Zamfara (267) and Borno (257). Kaduna and Zamfara are the hotbeds of banditry ravaging the North-West zone of the country while Borno is the epicentre of the Boko Haram insurgency. States that recorded high deaths include: Yobe (76), Niger (73), Delta (46), Ebonyi (43), Katsina (41), Oyo (37), Plateau (31), Lagos (26), Rivers (24), Imo (23), Ogun (20), and Ondo (20). Others are Nasarawa (16), Cross River (15), Benue (12), Anambra (11), Akwa Ibom (11), Kogi (11),  Kwara (8), Taraba (8), Osun (8), Abia (7), Edo (7), Sokoto (5), Adamawa (4), FCT Abuja (3), Kano (2), Gombe (1), Enugu (1), and Jigawa (1). According to the data, the South-East zone is the most peaceful zone with 85 reported deaths followed by the South-South, which had 103 deaths, and South-West, 112 deaths. Conversely, the North-West is the deadliest zone with 724 deaths, followed by its flanking North-East, which witnessed no fewer than 346 deaths and North-Central that had 155 deaths. In the South-East, Ebonyi on account of the Effium-Ezza communal crisis recorded most deaths followed by Imo, which tally was spiked by the clashes between security forces and the Eastern Security Network, ESN, of the Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, in Orlu. In the South-West, Oyo State was on the front burner due to the herdsmen and locals’ crisis in Ibarapa as well as Amotekun brushes with youths. Cult-related killings and other crimes took the tally of deaths in Lagos to 26. In the South-South, Delta and Rivers were on the front-burner due to pirates’ activities in Rivers; and cult clashes and armed robbery-related killings in Delta. In sum, the three southern zones accounted for 300 or 18.19 per cent of the 1,525 deaths. The northern zones recorded 1,225 or 81.91 per cent of the tallied deaths. A host of Nigerian leaders have decried the rising waves of insecurity in the country and tasked President Muhammadu Buhari on urgent action. Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, said on February 10 that Nigeria’s leaders had failed and must come together irrespective of political differences to save the country. He said: “Every time a citizen going about his business is killed or kidnapped, losses his property or livelihood, we have failed in our obligations.” Senators, on the same day, spoke in like manner, saying that Nigeria was becoming a failed state on account of insecurity and asked President Buhari to issue an executive order on the need to flush out criminal herders. Indeed, Nigeria’s last military Head of State and Chairman of the National Peace Committee, General Abdulsalami Abubakar (retd), warned on Wednesday that Nigeria is on the highway to disintegration unless insecurity is decisively tackled. “In the last two weeks or so, tension has been growing in the country and the embers of disunity, anarchy and disintegration are spreading fast and if care is not taken, this might lead us to a point of no return,” he warned. How 1,525 lives were wasted in six weeks January 1: Seven farmers were killed by bandits in Mashegu LGA of Niger State. Many were left injured during the attack on the farmers in their farms in Babban Rami. January 1: A 20-year old woman, Mrs. Suwaiba Shuaibu, lured and stabbed her teenage rival, Miss Aisha Kabir, 17, to death because her husband proposed to marry Aisha. January 2: Unknown men killed Quadri Okunola, popularly called Kudeti, a father of three at Macaulay/Odudu, along Igbogbo/ Bayeku road, Ikorodu, Lagos. January 2: One person was killed in Osogbo, Osun State, when cult groups clashed during a carnival party at Isale-Osun area of the town. January 2: Bandits killed a chief executive officer of a filling station and his two cousins in Idere, Ibarapa North LGA, Oyo State. January 2: Bandits invaded Kawaran Rafiu village in Igabi LGA of Kaduna State and killed the chief Imam of the village, Danleeman Isah. Also killed was the Sarkin Yaki of Godogodo, Yohanna Abu. January 2: Bandits killed 19 persons in Giwa, Kaduna. January 2: Gunmen killed three and kidnapped two in Ibarapa, Oyo. January 2: Robbers killed two civilians and police officers killed two robbers in Ughelli, Delta. January 2: Military airstrikes killed “several” Boko Haram militants at two separate locations (estimated at 20) in Bama, Borno State. January 3: Suspected internet fraudsters killed a girl, 18, in a hotel at Owa community in Ika North LGA of Delta State January 3: No fewer than 19 people were killed in a two-day attack in Kaduna. Twelve of the victims were indigenes of Kaya, Gura LGA. January 3: Boko Haram killed six soldiers and one civilian in Chibok, Borno. January 3: Bandits killed nine in Birnin-Gwari, Kaduna State. January 4: Nigerian troops killed “several” bandits estimated at 20 in Birnin-Gwari, Giwa, Igabi, and Chikun LGAs in Kaduna. January 4: Four people were shot while properties worth millions of naira were destroyed in a bloody violence in some parts of Ibadan, Oyo State. January 4: Police men killed two suspected members of a three man robbery gang in Ughelli, Delta State. January 4: Bandits killed nine people including three infants in Zankoro, Kaduna State. January 4: Two passengers were killed and many others were declared missing following an attack on two commercial boats on Bonny Waterways, Rivers State January 5: Gunmen killed one and kidnapped 20 in Toto, Nassarawa. January 5: Boko Haram attacked Askira/Uba, Borno but were repelled by military airstrikes that killed “several” (estimated at 10) insurgents. January 5: Pirates killed two in Bonny, Rivers. January 5: Gunmen killed former education secretary of Nasarawa local government, Malawi Salisu at Mungi sharp corner, Buga Gwari, Gadabuke, Toto local council. The hoodlums abducted no fewer than 20 people travelling in three vehicles and took them into the bush. Salihu was among those abducted. His body was later found in the bush near the road. January 6: Bandits killed a police man and kidnapped five others in attacks in Shiroro and Raji local governments in Niger State January 6: Gombe state police command killed a kidnap suspect identified as Ustas during gunshot exchange with police men at Pinga, Gombe January 6: Amotekun killed three civilians in Ibarapa, Oyo. January 6: Boko Haram killed commuters (no number given, estimated at 10) in Nganzai, Borno. January 6: Military airstrikes killed “several” (estimated at 10) Boko Haram militants in Damboa, Borno. January 6: Four persons reportedly lost their lives during inter-communal conflict between Abankang and Alok communities in Ikom LGA, Cross River State. January 7: Gunmen abducted a traveller and killed his driver along Ise/Isua/Akoko Highway in Ondo State. January 7 Bandits attacked Katarma village in Chikun local Government, Kaduna, killed four persons and kidnapped many women. January 7: Three persons were feared dead during a bloody clash between youths and Amotekun operatives at Tapa, Oyo State January 7: A mob set ablaze a suspected ritualist said to be in possession of a human heart at Orile, Lagos. January 8: Soldiers killed five civilians during a clash in Baruten, Kwara. January 8: The Nigeria Customs Service killed three commercial drivers at a checkpoint in Baruten, Kwara State. January 8: Gunmen attacked a police station and killed three police officers in Ezza South, Ebonyi. January 8: Two passengers were killed in a pirate attack on two commercial boats around Dema Abbey Community on Bonny waterways January 9: Amotekun operatives killed seven in Ibarapa North, Oyo. January 9: 28 Boko Haram militants and 13 soldiers were killed during a clash in Gujba, Yobe; in a separate incident, Nigerian soldiers killed another 30 militants in Gujba. January 9: Nigerian troops killed 50 bandits in Kaura-Namoda, Zamfara. January 9: Gunmen killed one person while attempting to snatch his vehicle at the ever-busy Zoo Road in Kano Metropolis. January 10: Gunmen killed three mobile police officers in Ughelli North, Delta. January 10: Gunmen killed two in Riyom, Plateau. January 10: Nigerian troops killed five bandits and lost one soldier in Faskari, Katsina. January 10: Three suspected thieves were burnt at different locations in Calabar, Cross River State. January 10: A man died after his estranged lover bathed him with petrol and set him on fire in Makurdi, Benue State. January 10: Gunmen opened fire on a couple, killing the lady in the process at Ekuigbo, Ethiope, Delta State. January 11: Five soldiers and six Boko Haram militants were killed during a clash in Damboa, Borno. January 11: Gunmen killed a councillorship candidate and kidnapped two others in Oshimili South, Delta. January 11:A Boko Haram suicide bombers killed himself and six Nigerian soldiers in Damboa, Borno. January 11: A female corps member, Chidimma Odume, macheted and killed her lover at Abak Road, Uyo, Akwa Ibom State. January 11: Inter-communal clash between the people of Edondon and Ohumuruket in Obubra LGA, Cross River claimed no fewer than four lives January11: Two people were feared dead, while three others were missing after suspected pirates attacked two passenger boats along the coastal waters of Aru-Gbanaama and Polokiri in Bonny LGA of Rivers State. January 12: Military airstrikes killed “several” (estimated at 10) Boko Haram insurgents in Kaga, Borno. January 12: Suspected land grabbers killed four in Ikorodu, Lagos. January 16: Bandits killed one in Igabi LGA, three in Chikun LGA, and one in Giwa LGA in Kaduna. January 16: Bandits killed a livestock guard and shot NSCDC officer in Makurdi, Benue January 17: Two persons were gunned down in Ughelli North LGA of Delta State during cults clash at a popular hotel along Warri-Ekuigbo Road. January 18: Two bandits were killed by troops along Sabon-Iche-Kagarko Raod, Kagarko LGA of Kaduna State. January 18: Gunmen killed a policeman, injured two others and carted away two guns in Borokiri, Port Harcourt. January 18: No fewer than five persons were killed and seven others were injured in a renewed hostility over land between Uko Ntenge and Uko Akpan communities in Mbo LGA of Akwa Ibom State. January 19: A 55-year old man, Ishau Falana, beat his reative, Badmus Rafiu, to death at Oluwasogo area of Ijaka Isale, Ayetoro, Ogun State. January 19: Gunmen killed a young man, Ajitwewunmeshe Emmah in Igarra, Akoko-Edo LGA of Edo State. January 21: A 23-year old man, Samuel Ajibade, was beaten to death over alleged phone theft by three suspects at Iju Ola, Ado-Odo/Ota LGA of Ogun State. January 23: A communal clash resulted in 40 deaths in Ohaukwu, Ebonyi. January 23: One person was feared dead while scores were wounded in a clash between Nigeria Army and Eastern Security Network of IPOB in Orlu, Imo State. January 24: Bandits killed a seven-month pregnant woman, Aisha, along the Kaduna-Birnin Gwari Road in Chikun LGA of Kaduna State. January 24: Two persons were shot and killed when armed robbed robbed traders along Bazunu Street, Warri South LGA of Delta State. January 24: The death toll in the Effium, Ohaukwu LGA, Ebonyi State communal clash rose to 40. January 24: Two persons were killed during clashes between cultists at Coker-Aguda LCDA of Lagos. January 24: Two persons, a soldier and a policeman, were killed when gunmen attacked a military checkpoint at Oton, a suburb of Sapele LGA of Delta State. January 24: Five people died and 10 were abducted when gunmen attacked Kaffin-Koro and adjoining villages of Paikoro LGA of Niger State. January 24: Kidnappers killed and dumped Chairman of Ardo Kola LGA of Taraba State. January 24: Two suspected motorcycle thieves were burnt to death by mobs in two locations in Makurdi, Benue State. January 24: A police officer who reportedly went to arrest a hemp smoker along Jos street in Kafanchan, Jema’a LGA of Kaduna State was killed in the process January 24: Three persons were killed and 15 women were abducted in an attack by bandits in some communities in Munya and Paikoro LGAs of Niger State. January 25: A 60 year old woman, who sold roasted plantain at Ilupeju area of Ibadan, Oyo State was hit by a stray bullet during a bloody clash between two rival cults. January 25: A member of a local vigilante group in Rivers State known as OSPAC, shot and killed a woman, Mrs. Beatrice Obisike, at a burial ceremony in a community in Obio/Akpor LGA of Rivers State. January 26: Gunmen killed two policemen in Karim Lamido LGA of Taraba State January 26: Gunmen killed two people, a community leader in Ugbori, Warri South LGA; and a mason in Orerokpe, Okpe LGA of Delta State. January 26: Three persons were reportedly killed and four others were abducted in a renewed clash between the people of Usaka Uko in Ikwuano LGA of Abia and Nkari people of Ini LGA, Akwa Ibom State. January 27: Robbers killed a motorcyclist around Leventis, Sango area of Ibadan, Oyo State after snatching his bike. January 27: A man, Chukwuemeka Obijofa, 28, killed his wife and four-year old son with a shovel in Benue. January 27: Four persons were reportedly shot dead in cult clashes in two Delta communities. One of the deceased was shot in Ekurede Itsekiri community while the other three were killed in Egbokodo near Ubeji. Both communities are in Warri South LGA, Delta State. January 28: Bandits attacked Magarya, a community in Zurmi LGA of Zamfara State, killing three persons, burning several houses and rustling 100 cattle. January 28: Troops using fighter jets bombed bandits in Birnin-Gwari, Giwa, Igabi and Chikun LGAs of Kaduna State. Bandits killed four persons in Igabi and Chikun. January 28: A woman was strangled by his son in Dilchim, a community in Michika LGA of Adamawa State. January 28: A hunter, Mr. Ukachukwu Nweke, 65, killed his wofe, Patricia, 55, and his 29-year old son, Obinna, in Anambra and committed suicide. January 28: Barely 48 hours after President Buhari appointed new service chiefs, bandits went on rampage in Niger, Kaduna and Taraba states killing five persons and kidnapping 83 people including 27 wedding guests. January 29:  Bandits attacked a Fulani settlement at Na’ Ikko village in GIWA LGA of Kaduna State, killed 12 persons and razed many houses. January 30: Suspected Fulani herdsmen killed one and kidnapped one in Akure North, Ondo.  How Nigerians were killed in the zones South-East                          – 85 South-South                      – 103 South-West                        – 112 North-Central                    – 155 North-East                          – 346 North-West                        – 724 Vanguard News Nigeria MADALLA (AFP) - Some 2,000 mourners crowded a Nigerian church still marked by blood stains Wednesday for a funeral service for victims of a Christmas day attack claimed by Islamists that killed dozens. February 1, 2012 In "News" WHILE the attention of governments at all levels is focused on the COVID-19 pandemic, Nigeria has literally remained a killing field with lives of thousands of citizens cut short by insecurity and other diseases. May 23, 2020 In "News" Rescue workers on Tuesday struggled to reach a remote town where the military was restricting access after fierce clashes that killed 187 people, as a regional governor ordered a massive relief effort following the "barbaric" violence. April 23, 2013 In "News"