Ondo State governor, Rotimi Akeredolu and his wife, Betty have revalidated their membership of the All Progressives Congress (APC) at the Governor’s hometown in Owo. Akeredolu was accompanied to his Ijebu 2 ward 5, polling unit 6, by the acting chairman of the party in the state, Ade Adetimehin, the majority leader of the House of Assembly, Hon. Oluwole Ogunmolasuyi, his colleague representing Owo constituency 2, Hon. Adeyemi Olayemi, the Chief of Staff, Chief Olugbenga Ale, acting chairman of the APC in Owo, Chief Sydney Ogunleye, some members of the state executive council and chieftains of the APC in the state. Speaking during the exercise, the governor said that the APC has come to stay in Ondo State. He added that it’s the only party that’s popular among the people of the state. While urging members and leaders of the party to bring more members into the APC, Governor Akeredolu said they must ensure that only quality people are attracted into the party. ” I know some of us have registered before, I have registered before too and that’s why I can contest under the party. We are here to revalidate our membership. ” If you haven’t registered before, do it afresh. Bring your passport size photograph. We are here for revalidation and registration. Earlier, the Secretary of the registration committee, Hon. Taiwo Olatunbosun said there will be no proxy registration noting that individual who wishes to register or revalidate their membership must be physically present. Olatunbosun said that the essence of the revalidation and registration exercise was to enable the party to have a reliable document that would contain the actual number of party members which will also help in its empowerment programs. Vanguard News Nigeria Akeredolu, highly placed sources in the APC said, appeared not to have forgiven those party leaders for their preference for Abraham, even after his emergence as governor August 19, 2018 In "Politics" ANXIETY is mounting within the All Progressive Congress, APC, in Ondo state as the new governor, Rotimi Akeredolu, SAN, kept party members guessing on key appointments, 72 hours after his swearing-in. February 27, 2017 In "News" By Dayo Johnson THE local government election in Ondo state kicked off today peacefully across the state with an impressive turn out across the 18 council areas of the state. Accreditation and voting commenced at about 830am. Although reports had it that election materials arrived some parts of the council… August 22, 2020 In "Focus: Ondo Guber"