Fast rising Afro-beat singer, Stainless Ehimamiegho, better known by his stage name as ‘Stainless’, has upped his game as he drops a new single titled ‘Fiona.’ Speaking on the new song, which is currently enjoying massive airplay on radio stations across the nation, Stainless said he started doing music professionally at the age of 14. “At a very young age, I started off with drawing and painting before learning to play the flute, then drums and piano. The first time I considered the idea of doing music was when I saw my elder brother making waves in music and how he was able to bring people together. The second time was after I heard Wizkid’s ‘Holla at Your Boy’. I enjoyed the beat and rhythmic sequence. The same day I wrote a verse and that’s how my journey began.” Describing his brand of music as Afro-pop, the talented singer who is determined to make a mark on the Nigerian music scene said; “I will describe my sound as a combination of my experiences and what I want to see in the world. My sound is soothing, emotions, free and melodic.” Recalling memorable moments that defined his career, the rising Afro-pop singer, said it was when he was privileged to open shows for a lot of talented musicians. “One of my biggest highlights was Burna Boy’s African Giant tour. It was a sold out show and the response I got was amazing. Another one was when I met with Osagie who has not only helped me , but also, has continued to watch me break new grounds as an artiste.” Vanguard News Nigeria Music-making was never the plan for popular afro-beat music singer, Oluwakayode Junior Balogun, a.k.a Barry Jhay, son of late Fuji music king, Ayinde Barrister, but based on his father's dying wish he had no choice but to embrace the craft. April 13, 2019 In "Entertainment" Though fast rising Afro-beat musician, Lateef Adeyemi Adedapo, a.k.a, Latoya, takes education very  seriously and plans to sponsor kids to school in the nearest future, after spending quality number of years in bagging a degree in Metallurgical and Materials Engineering, from the University of Lagos, he dumped the idea of… July 3, 2019 In "Entertainment" Having honed his music skills while listening to music heavyweights including 2Baba, Burna Boy, Psquare, Bob Marley, Rodey Ricch, among others, afro-beat/afro-pop music singer, Mbadike Obinna, a.k.a SEA, has released his debut single titled ‘Mendem’, under Bandz Media, produced by Yebo4life, mixed and mastered by STG, with visuals by Marvin.… September 20, 2020 In "News"