RESIDENTS of Akai Effa, a suburb of Calabar are now deserting  the area after four bodies of slain  policemen were discovered early this morning in the area. The police team, according to a source,  acting on intelligence  went to the area to  accost some hoodlums suspected to be kidnappers around midnight   but were gunned down by the suspected kidnappers. When Vanguard visited the area, the bodies of the policemen had been removed but everywhere looked desolate as most residents had left while some  simply locked their apartments for fear of police revenge. “How could they have come at such time of the night to accost armed kidnappers without putting on bullet proof vests and informing police units around the area”. Ita, a resident of the area told Vanguard. He said a burst of gunshots were heard between 12.00 and 1.00 am “All of a sudden we heard loud gunshots and after some time everywhere went quiet’. He said the kidnappers may have been tipped off on the coming of the team and mounted an ambush to attack the policemen. Ms Irene Ugbo, the Cross River Police spokesman refused to answer calls on her GSM line. Vanguard News Nigeria THE relative peace hitherto experienced by residents of Yewa, Isawo community in Ikorodu area of Lagos was, yesterday, shattered following sporadic gunfire by suspected kidnappers, which left six persons, including an Army Captain, four policemen, a landlord and a member of the Oodua Peoples Congress, OPC, dead. April 10, 2017 In "Headlines" By Bose Adelaja There was an uproar on Thursday, in Ijora area of Lagos State, as a suspected kidnapper was tortured, stripped naked and beaten to pulp by a mob. The incident which turned rowdy occurred at about 10.30 am, at Abete, Ijora in Apapa/Iganmu area of Lagos. She was… August 13, 2020 In "News" Sporadic gunshots rented the air in Isheri Osun area of Lagos yesterday, after some gunmen suspected to be kidnappers, attempted to abduct a bishop of one of the pentecostal churches in the area and his wife. March 15, 2017 In "News"