Governor Rotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State has explained why his administration wants to establish ranches and grazing areas in the state. Akeredolu gave the reasons when the Independent Campaign Group (ICG in the All-Progressives Congress (APC) led by Hon Bola Ilori paid him a solidarity visit in Akure weekend. According to him “My administration want to establish ranches and grazing areas in the state to enable youths in the state to become active in cattle rearing. He insisted that his administration would provide support for private investors to build feeding-lots for cow rearing and also support youths interested in the business. According to him “we are considering reactivating the Auga-Akoko cattle ranch We would not shy away from our responsibility of protecting the lives and property of residents in the state. Akeredolu described the insecurity situation in the Southwest as a big challenge saying that all hands must be on deck to address the situation in the interest of the people. He appreciated the group for the support given to him which he noted contributed to his landslide victory at last year’s governorship polls. The leader of the group, Hon Bola Ilori, commended the quick response with which the governor tackled security challenges facing the state and the entire South-West region. Ilori noted that the action portrayed him as a leader that cares for the welfare of the people he is elected to serve in line with the letters of the Nigerian constitution. He urged the governor to show leadership by providing lasting solutions to the issue of farmer-herders clash in the state by activating old existing ranches in the state and also encourage the youths of the state to take up cattle rearing business. Vanguard News Nigeria *Miyetti Allah pleads, to meet on next step *Akeredolu acted responsibly —Afenifere *Most okada riders spy for bandits, foreign kidnappers —Oyo Amotekun commandant By Dayo Johnson, Dapo Akinrefon & Deola Badru THE Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria, MACBAN, yesterday, pleaded for more time, as Governor Rotimi Akeredolu issued… January 19, 2021 In "News" Gov. Oluwarotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State on Friday in Akure distributed 400,000 cocoa seedlings and 25,000 cashew seedlings to farmers in the state. August 31, 2018 In "Agric" By Dayo Johnson TWELVE state governors and other chieftains of the All Progressive Congress Wednesday stormed Ondo state for the grand finale of governor Rotimi Akeredolu's campaign rally ahead of Saturday's poll. They include Abubakar Bello (Niger) Solomon Lanlong (Plateau) Abdulrasak Abdulrahman (Kwara) Babagana Zulu (Borno) Nasir el-rufai (Kaduna) Umaru… October 7, 2020 In "Focus: Ondo Guber"