As the dust raised by Senator Smart Adeyemi’s outburst against Gov. Okezie Ikpeazu is yet to settle, the youth wing of the apex Igbo socio-cultural body, Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Abia State chapter, has given conditions upon which the Kogi West senator can ‘atone for his sins.’ This is as Abia students have issued a seven-day ultimatum to the former National President of the Nigeria Union of Journalists, NUJ, to publicly apologise or await the wrath of Abia students. Senator Adeyemi had while contributing to a debate on the floor of the senate, veered off to make disparaging remarks on Gov Ikpeazu when he called him “a champagne- drinking governor”, adding that “Abia is governed by drunkards”. Addressing newsmen weekend, the Abia  State President of Ohanaeze Youths, Comrade Okey Nwachukwu, said Senator Adeyemi had committed sacrilege by his unguarded uttrances against “not only a sitting Igbo Governor but the entire good people of Abia State”. Ohanaeze said Adeyemi had put an indelible dent on Abians by inferring that they are being “governed by drunkards”, a false and careless remark that is capable of denying them opportunities both at home and in the diaspora. He therefore reeled out conditions for”cleansing the sacrilege” committed by Senator Adeyemi, insisting that he must come to Abia with Kogi State Royal fathers to appease the land. “Smart Adeyemi has committed sacrilege and he needs cleansing; when a man or woman goes beyond the bounds, he or she should be called to order. “Abians are not happy, Igbos are not happy  both at home and abroad . We are summoning Smart Adeyemi with the Chairman of the Kogi State Traditional Rulers Council, and the  President of his Town union. “He has to come with his wife   and other personalities from his state and  apologize  for such  utterance made on the person of our governor”. The OYC helmsman said Adeyemi’s comment was an insult to all Abians both at home and abroad, he he had to tender his apologies on Abia soil. “We demand an apology not written on the pages of the newspapers nor on the television, he has to come  to Abia State. We give him seven days to do that  or else…” He noted that Abia and Kogi State had maintained a good relationship both in inter-marriage and trade,  warning Adeyemi not to drag both states into unnecessary strife. Meanwhile, Abia students in a release signed by the Special Assistant to the Governor on Students Affairs, Comrade Chibuzor Ndom, gave Adeyemi seven days to publicly retract his outburst a tender unreserved apology or brace up for their wrath. “We find the irresponsible outburst as not only insulting on the personality of our Governor, but disdainful on our state; and to this extent demand him to  unreservedly apologize to the Governor and entire Abians within 7 days, or have Abia Students to contend with”, the release read. The students accused Adeyemi of attacking Gov Ikpeazu to curry favour from his state Governor, Yahaya Bello who has been in a running battle with Adeyemi’s rival, Senator Dino Melaye. The students argued that Gov Ikpeazu would not have been made a Life Grand Patron of the National Association of Nigerian Students, NANS if he were to be a drunk like Adeyemi claimed in his vituperation. Vanguard News Nigeria As Senator Smart Adeyemi still gets more knocks over his disparaging remarks against Gov. Okezie Ikpeazu, Senator Mao Ohuabunwa who represented Abia North in the eight senate, has told the Kogi West senator that "the senate is not for thugs". February 26, 2021 In "News" Ohanaeze Ndigbo Youth Council Worldwide had studied diligently the recent vituperative rhetoric’s of fifth columnists and sponsored groups, and urged them not to allow themselves to be used as a medium to create disaffection and disunity in Igbo land. January 3, 2020 In "News" As the tussle for the Abia state governorship position lingers, Ohanaeze Youth Council has warned a group known as South East Elders to stop making statements capable of causing A breach of peace in the state. July 22, 2016 In "News"