The security outfit launched by Cross River Governor, Prof. Ben Ayade codenamed  ‘Operation Akpakwu’ has busted a baby factory operating  at Anantigha axis of Calabar South Local government area of the state . During the handing over of 24 ladies, 11 children and 2 others suspected to be  behind the baby factory, by officer Commanding 13 Brigade, Brig. Gen. Mohammed Abudulahi to NAPTIP officials said the Army will not relent in making sure there was peace . Brigade Commander represented by Officer Commanding 13 Brigade Provost, Major. Stanley Ikepeme who did the handing over of suspects and inmates of the facility said they would carry out their duty which is to maintain peace He added that  the army will not relent in its task of ensuring that peace and security reigns in the state and all forms of criminality was completely stamped out from the state. The Head of Operations, National Agency for the Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons NAPTIP, Mr. Oba Jacobs disclosed that the suspects would be investigated and charged to court for prosecution. Jacobs urged the public to keep an eye on their neighbors and report such to the agency for proper action. He disclosed that the agency has a facility in Calabar where suspects would be kept until proper investigation was done and those found wanting are charge to court to face the wrath of the law. “As an agency, we have the mandate to arrest, prosecute, we also urged the public to assist us with useful information that would lead to arrest of these category of people involved in this kind of racket” he said. The suspected the owner of the baby factory, Mrs Fedelia Daniel, who apprehended  by the security personnel alongside her husband denied the allegations saying she knows nothing about the factory. When Vanguard spoke with one of the teenager’s, Stella John  who claimed she was carrying a five months old pregnancy ,she said she was introduced to the place by one of her friends . “I was introduced to the place by one  of my friend’s after my boyfriend left me when I became pregnant ,I had no money and I needed money, that was why I decided to make money through this means. I  receive 2000 naira on weekly basis for my  upkeep,” she said . Vanguard News Nigeria By Emma Una, Calabar Permanent Secretary, State Security Services in Cross River, Dr Alfred Mboto has declared that the launch of Operation Akpakwu has dealt a heavy blow on kidnappers, robbers and cultists and many have been chased out from the state. Mboto who spoke with Vanguard on Monday said… January 5, 2021 In "News" OFFICERS and men of the 13 Brigade of the Nigerian Army, Calabar, Cross River State have paraded over 93 people suspected to be members of the two rival cult groups that have been terrorizing residents of Calabar in the last one week. June 23, 2012 In "News" Come-And-Live-And-Be-At-Rest is the acronym for Calabar, the Cross River State capital and the nation’s first administrative headquarters during the colonial era. Calabar is noted for serene environment and has been adjudged as the country’s tourism destination. The city is peaceful, clean and green with highly rich culture and cuisine though… July 7, 2012 In "Crime Guard"