The number one bestselling author and former aide to ex-president Goodluck Jonathan, Pastor Reno Omokri, has disagreed with the presidency over the reason behind Nigeria’s abysmal corruption rating by global anti-corruption watchdog, Transparency International, TI. Pastor Omokri, in a statement on Tuesday, said Nigerians are not to blame but that president Muhammadu Buhari and members of his government are to blame for Nigeria’s very poor anti-corruption rating. According to Transparency International’s new Corruption Perception Index, released on Friday, January 29, 2021, Nigeria is more corrupt today than under the previous administration, having moved 13 places backwards in the CPI, from 136 in 2014 to 149 in 2021. However, the presidency, through president Buhari’s media aide, Garba Shehu, countered TI’s indices for rating Nigeria poorly. Instead, Mr Shehu had blamed the poor rating on Nigerians instead of the president and the government. According to him, Nigerians and not Buhari, are responsible But pastor Omokri, in his statement, gave reasons why, according to him, Buhari’s government should be blamed for Nigeria’s very poor rating. According to him, “Monday, February 1, 2021, Nigerians woke up to a rather shocking accusation. According to Transparency International new Corruption Perception Index, released on Friday, January 29, 2021, Nigeria is more corrupt today than under the previous administration, having moved 13 places backwards in the CPI, from 136 in 2014 to 149 in 2021 (our worst performance ever.) However, rather than own up to their failures, the ever blaming Buhari administration accused Nigerians, saying the long-suffering citizens of Nigeria, and not the government, were responsible for this abysmal corruption perception rating. On Channel Television’s Sunrise Daily, Garba Shehu (he was also a spokesman to the Obasanjo PDP Government) said: “I’ll tell you that this one by TI is not a judgment on Buhari or his administration or its war against corruption, I will tell you that this one is a judgment on Nigerians because if you look at the indices they used at arriving at these conclusions, they used eight indices, six of which showed Nigeria as being more or less Nigeria in the same position.” Garba Shehu has made many untrue statements, including, but not limited to, the lie that bandits abducted only 10 Kankara boys on December 11, 2020 (we now know that over 300 boys were abducted), or the lie that Buhari has secured Nigeria (according to the Global Terrorism Index, Nigeria is now more terrorised than at any time under former President Jonathan), or his lie that “Nigeria just achieved the record of the second-largest producer of rice in the world” (Nigeria is not even among the top 10 rice producers). Garba Shehu lies without fear of God. And to prove to Nigerians that the Buhari administration is irresponsible and that this President is incapable of leading Nigeria to anything other than total destruction, I will now list reasons why Transparency International declared Nigeria, under Buhari, as one of the most corrupt nations on Earth. Please find the reasons below. Now, I ask Nigerians, if you were Transparency International, would you rate Nigeria as a nation that is serious in fighting corruption, when the government of Nigeria is yet to explain why they have allowed the the infractions listed above to go unpunished, and even sometimes to reward those behind these acts of corruption?” Vanguard News Nigeria Former aide to ex-president Goodluck Jonathan, Pastor Reno Omokri, Tuesday challenged Nigerians to tell him one sector in the country that has improved since the inception of President Muhammadu Buhari in 2015. June 30, 2020 In "News" Garba Shehu, Senior Special Assistant to the President (Media & Publicity) has asked former aide to ex-President Goodluck Jonathan, Reno Omokri and his acolytes to for forget about presiding over the affairs of Nigeria. May 22, 2018 In "News" Number one bestselling author and former aide to Ex-President Goodluck Jonathan, Pastor Reno Omokri, has said that President Muhammadu Buhari’s government is the most corrupt administration that Nigeria has ever had. February 27, 2018 In "News"