Maiduguri—THE Chief of Army Staff, COAS, Major General Ibrahim Attahiru yesterday gave troops of the Nigerian Army, ‘Operation Lafiya Dole’ 48 hours to clear insurgents off Marte Local Government Area, LGA, of Borno State recently seized by Boko Haram insurgents. General Attahiru also directed troops to clear terrorists off Kirenowa, Kirta, Wulgo, Chikingudo communities of Marte and Ngala local government areas in the state. He gave the ultimatum while addressing troops of the Nigerian Army Super camp 9, Dikwa, saying “areas around  Marte, Chikingudu, Wulgo  Kirenowa and Kirta must be cleared in the next 48 hours. You should be rest assured of all support you required in this very onerous task. ” I have just spoken to the Theater Commander, and the General Officer Commanding 7 Division, you must not let this nation down. Go back and do the needful and I will be right behind you.” Meanwhile the Executive Chairman of Guzamala LGA of Borno State, Umar Kyari, lamented that since Boko Haram terrorists dislodged thousands of residents in the last two and half years, all operations of the council were being done at Nganzai LGA.. The Guzamala council chairman said, residents were in a very difficult situation compounded by  last week fire outbreak which took place in Nganzai Internally Displaced Persons, IDPs camp, which rendered over 1,200 Guzamala persons homeless with no food or means of livelihoods. According to him: ” Recall that in the year 2018, we in Guzamala Local Government Area Jubilated when troops of Operation Last Hold accompanied us including 6,000 IDPS back to Gudumbali, the Headquarter of Guzamala Local Government, we couldn’t stay there for a long, as Boko haram dislodged troops and the civil population. “Precisely on 20 June 2018, we were forced out of Guzamala and now taking refuge at various camps in the state. ” Since then, Guzamala Local Government secretariat and administrative works are been operated temporarily in Nganzai Local Government Area. Vanguard News Nigeria By Kingsley Omonobi Security sources have raised serious concerns over the indiscriminate planting of landmines and activities of Boko Haram informants in some Local Government Areas (LGAs) in the North-East, PRNigeria has learnt. It was discovered that in some communities, the informants not only leak vital information to the terrorists… February 8, 2021 In "News" The Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lt.-Gen. Tukur Buratai, has tasked troops in the north east theatre of operation to braze up for the final defeat of insurgents. April 9, 2020 In "News" By Idoko Ainoko When service chiefs were appointed in July 2015, like many people with keen interest in the polity especially security. I went further to dig into the profile of the newly appointed chiefs. They all seem to be great choices made by Mr President. However one of them… September 14, 2020 In "News"