Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Yekini Nabena, has said that the Minister of Information and Culture Lai Mohammed has not done enough in the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari. Nabena also said time has left the Minister behind in the scheme of things in APC, adding that he (Mohammed) can no longer catch up with time unless he work with his Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq of Kwara State. Lai Mohammed had called Yekini Nabena an impostor for advising him to work with his Kwara state governor and allow peace to reign in the ongoing nationwide membership registration and revalidation exercise of the party. But replying the Minister in a statement made available to newsmen on Wednesday, Nabena insisted that “Lai Mohammed should go back to his state chapter (Kwara) if he is still relevant there and work with the governor and other stakeholders for his voice to be heard at national level.” According to Nabena, Lai Mohammed and others are calling for the cancellation of the registration exercise for their selfish interest, adding that “the details of evil plans to destroy the APC by the likes of the minister has been exposed and the party leadership is fully aware. “At the right time, they will be exposed and Nigerians will then know the real impostor, that time is sooner.” On the allegation of imposition, Nabena said Lai Mohammed does not understand that “NEC can’t commit suicide and give birth to Caretaker Committee because it is the highest body of the party. Even the President, the governors, Senate President and the Speaker are all nembers of the NEC. So, if NEC commits suicide that shows there is no more party. “Time has left Lai Mohammed behind and he can’t catch up with time. Lai Mohammed and his fifth columnists are the biggest problems of this administration. As the Minister of Information and Culture that suppose to explain the policies and programmes, including remarkable achievements of this administration to Nigerians, Lai Muhammed has failed woefully,” Nabena challenged the Minister. The Bayelsa-born politician, however said for Lai Mohammed to know the real impostor, he should ask himself and his fifth columnists gang within the APC that are bearing names that are not in the party’s constitution.” Vanguard News Nigeria By Emmanuel Elebeke   The Minister of Information and Culture, Alh. Lai Mohammed says he would not dignify anybody claiming  to the Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the Apc because such post does not exist The minister stated this in a statement signed on Tuesday in Abuja and made available… February 16, 2021 In "News" Indications emerged yesterday that the ruling All Progressives Congress, APC, is moving against loyalists of the Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki in government as Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, yesterday directed the Senate President's loyalists in the various agencies of the Federal Government to resign from office… July 30, 2018 In "Headlines" By Omeiza Ajayi, Abuja Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress APC, Mr. Yekini Nabena has declared that the plans of the Peoples Democratic Party PDP and its outgoing governor in Bayelsa State, Seriake Dickson to rig the November 16 governorship election in the state would never come… October 2, 2019 In "News"