Bauchi State Governor Bala Mohammed has directed that the N500 million saved from fighting ghost workers be channeled to pay gratuities of all State retired civil servants. Governor Mohammed who was also the special guest of honour disclosed this on Thursday during the closing ceremony of the Correspondents’ Chapel Week organized by the Correspondents chapel of the Nigerian Union of Journalists, Bauchi State chapter. “We are freeing resources from those ghost workers whom we have refused to allow in the system. What we have realised under the period, we are using it to pay gratuities for local government and the state amounting to N500 million. “Myself and my deputy and entire cabinet are making sacrifices to develop our people and our state. It is not that we are getting money than before, it is just because we are doing good pricing, good procurement and I know that with little we can do so much,” the governor said. He further assured that his administration would not relent in freeing resources by flushing out more ghost workers in the system to save money. Vanguard News Nigeria Bauchi state Governor, Sen. Bala Mohammed has revealed that despite non-recruitment into the state civil service during the four-year tenure of his predecessor, Abubakar Mohammed, over 41, 000 ghost workers have now been uncovered in the state's payroll. October 27, 2019 In "News" By Omeiza Ajayi Bauchi State Governor, Senator Bala Mohammed has revealed that despite non-recruitment into the state civil service during the four-year tenure of his predecessor, Abubakar Mohammed, over 41, 000 ghost workers have now been uncovered in the state's payroll. This was as the governor declared that the state… October 27, 2019 In "News" Gov. Bala Mohammed of Bauchi state on Friday said that his administration inherited the sum of N27bn naira in pension arrears from his predecessors. Mohammed, who disclosed this in Bauchi when the Christians Association of Nigeria (CAN), paid him a courtesy visit to mark the 2020 Christmas celebration, explained that… December 26, 2020 In "News"