 Following reports that Senator Musiliu Obanikoro and Senator Iyiola Omisore had allegedly retrieved their passports back from the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, and travelled to America, the former aviation minister, Chief Femi Fani-Kayode, Sunday said he does not blame them for joining the ruling All Progressives Congress, APC in order to avoid being persecuted and vowed that he (Fani-Kayode) would rather die than bow to President Muhammadu Buhari or join APC. Disclosing this via his official Facebook handle, Fani- Kayode urged Nigerians to stay strong and focused, noting that time has come for Nigerians to enthrone justice, fair play and equal opportunities for everybody regardless of his faith and ethnic nationality. His words: I am not surprised that my good friend Senator Musiliu Obanikoro and Senator Iyiola Omisore have got their passports back from the EFCC and are now in America. I do not blame them for joining the ruling party to avoid persecution. Some are strong whilst others are weak. I would rather die than join APC or bow to Buhari. We must stay strong and focused and refuse to be distracted. We must enthrone justice, fair play and equal opportunities for every Nigerian regardless of his faith, ethnic nationality or circumstances of birth. Ours is to speak for the weak, the poor, the voiceless and the oppressed. Vanguard News Nigeria Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, stalwart Chief Femi Fani-Kayode has said that he will rather die than join the All Progressives Congress, APC, October 21, 2018 In "News" Ex Minister of Aviation, Femi Fani-Kayode, has warned former Minister of State for Defence, Senator Musiliu Obanikoro, not to bow to the enemy, the All Progressives Congress (APC) Fani-Kayode reacting to the reports that Senator Musiliu Obanikoro, may have made up his mind to dump the Peoples Democratic Party, which… May 8, 2017 In "News" Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu, yesterday, paid a solidarity visit to four key officials of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP., who are being detained by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission over alleged graft running into billions of Naira. October 28, 2016 In "News"