The People Democratic Party, PDP, Support Groups Coalition, led by the Head of Coalition, Dr. Basil  Nwaolisa, has charged the state party Chairman, Ndubuisi Nwaobu to conduct transparent primaries for the upcoming state elections. The coalition made this call during a solidarity visit to the PDP headquarters in Awka, the Anambra State capital. Speaking at the event on Wednesday, Nwaolisa further requested the party allows for free and fair primaries, putting an end to the era of imposition in the state. Speaking further, the PDP coalition demanded that Anambra be returned to its original party, the PDP. The coalition pledged to work closely with the party in making sure that Anambra gets the best this time and assured that all hands would be on deck. In her remarks, a member of the group, Nike Abdulrahman, who came from North Central, pledged to throw her weight behind the PDP in its awaiting victory in the forthcoming gubernatorial election in the state. Meanwhile, a prominent and executive member of the coalition from Taraba State, Dr. Ibraham David, told the chairman that PDP national has always been very ready to help state chapters. He, however, urged the chairman not to hesitate in reaching out to the party national office should he need any assistance. Another member of the delegation  Abduljalal a.k.a Al-Jazeera, thanked the chairman and his team for their outstanding representation. Abduljalal implored him not to rest on his oars until PDP moves into the Awka Government House through the ballots. The delegation rounded off their visit as South-East Zonal Coordinator of ASO, Mr. Alozie Alozie, vowed to make sure that the youth in Anambra are fully galvanised to work and support PDP during the gubernatorial election. He further promised that all realms of the media would be fully engaged to ensure PDP becomes the new song in Anambra State. Other members of the team include Mr. Ikenna Onuzuluike, Anambra State; Ada Igbo, AIT Enugu State; Chigozie Orizu, Anambra State; Abigail Etussu, FCT; and Idris Abudujala, FCT. Others are Hajia Hajara Haruna, Plateau; Jamunu Ibrahim, Sokoto; Sadiq Abubarka Zamfara; Ahjaji Otumba Olusola, Oyo State; Muttaka Tuta, Kano; Igwenagi Charles, Enugu; and Adukwu Eucharia, Anambra state. Vanguard News Nigeria AS the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) holds its senatorial primaries tomorrow, next week is a decisive one for the hordes of senatorial aspirants in the 109 senatorial districts of the country especially in Anambra Central of Anambra State. The candidates of the leading political parties will emerge this week. December 6, 2014 In "Politics" THE battle for Governor Peter Obi’s successor has begun in earnest and, as is customary with Anambra elections, intrigues and manipulations are already in the air. August 25, 2013 In "Politics" COME Saturday, November 16, 2013, exactly six days from today, the 1,784,536 registered voters in Anambra State will line up in 4,608 polling units in the state to elect a new governor that will succeed Governor Peter Obi on March 17 next year. The figure was arrived at after INEC… November 10, 2013 In "Politics"