Few days after at least three cocaine cartels were burst at the Murtala Mohammed International Airport, MMIA, Lagos, another trafficker, Ukaegbu Bright Onyekachi, has been nabbed with 3.30 kilograms of the illicit drug. The suspect was arrested on Monday, February 1, during the inward clearance of passengers on Ethiopian Airlines at the E-arrival hall of the MMIA. According to the Commander, MMIA command of the NDLEA, Mr. Ahmadu Garba, Ukaegbu Onyekachi arrived Nigeria on board Ethiopian Airlines plane from São Paulo, Brazil via Addis Ababa. “The hard drug was cleverly concealed in T-shirt stickers, but he couldn’t escape the eagle eyes of our detectives,” Garba stated. Below is a video of how the drugs were hidden: In Abuja This is even as operatives of the FCT Command of the agency have raided a number of drug spots in Abuja, where 14 persons including three men in military uniform suspected to be fake soldiers, were arrested and different quantities of cocaine, codeine, Rohypnol and Indian hemp were recovered. In the FCT, some of the drug spots raided at the weekend include Wuse Zone 4 and 5; Wuse by Banex plaza and Garki by Torabora. Also raided were Area 1 by Gwagwalada Park; Dagwa village and Abattoir in Karu. According to the FCT Commander of the agency, Lawan Hammisu, “the 14 persons arrested are being investigated in connection with the recovery of 34.8kg cannabis sativa. ‘Also seized were cocaine, codeine and Rohypnol. Three of the arrested persons, who were in military camouflage, are still being profiled but are suspected to be fake soldiers.” Nasarawa Meanwhile, the Nasarawa Command of the agency has uncovered a cannabis warehouse in Lafia, the Nasarawa State capital, where 45 bags of the illegal drug weighing 474kg were recovered. According to the state Commander of the NDLEA, Justice Arinze, “the recovery was the biggest singular seizure since the inception of the command in 1999. “We’re grateful to our new Chairman, Gen. Marwa who made the feat possible for us by empowering us with the needed logistics to go all out.” He said the command is continuing with its operation “Hana Kwaya”, in collaboration with other security agencies to raid drug joints and markets. He added that the first phase of the operation had covered some local government areas in the state with the arrest of 54 suspects comprising 12 dealers and 42 drug users, while a total of 604 kilograms of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances have been seized. The NDLEA Chairman, Marwa, has commended the men and officers of the MMIA, FCT and Nasarawa commands of the agency for taking the war to the doorsteps of traffickers and peddlers of illicit drugs in their areas. “I have told the commanders in my meeting with them that our maxim is offensive action and I’m glad they are following up on the strategies outlined for them,” the NDLEA statement quoted Marwa as saying. Vanguard News Nigeria The National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) on Friday said it had arrested a suspected notorious drug baron, Azubuike Odugwe, over unlawful importation of 1.025kg of cocaine. September 12, 2015 In "News" The National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) has arrested two grandmothers with narcotics at the Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA), Lagos, while on their way to the U.S and Saudi Arabia. May 6, 2017 In "News" Barely one week after the new Chairman/Chief Executive of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency, NDLEA, Gen. Mohammed Buba Marwa(retd) vowed to dismantle drug trafficking cartels across Nigeria, the agency has made huge seizures of cocaine and heroin, with street values worth over N30 billion at the Murtala Muhammed International… January 30, 2021 In "Health"