Following the flag-off of ‘Operation Puff Adder II’ by the Inspector General of Police, IGP Mohammed Adamu on 15th February, 2021, to reinvigorate the ongoing fight against violent crimes in the country and bring the perpetrators to book, operatives of the FIB Intelligence Response Team and Special Tactical Squad of the Force have arrested 48 criminal suspects. The criminal elements are made up of  47 male and one female, for their involvement and indictment in cases of armed robbery, kidnapping, unlawful possession of firearms, cybercrime/financial fraud and other heinous crimes in some parts of the country. Forty-one (41) prohibited firearms including fourteen (14) AK47 rifles, ten (10) AK47 Magazines, fifty-eight (58) live cartridges, four (4) AK47 live ammunition, four (4) POS Machines, two (2) laptop computers, eighteen (18) mobile phones, Internet MODEM and nine (9) ATM cards were recovered from the suspects in the operations. Notable among the breakthroughs, is the arrest of the nine (9) criminal suspects responsible for the kidnap of Hon Mohammed Bashir Bape, Member, Taraba State House of Assembly in December, 2020. The suspects were apprehended at their various hideouts in Taraba and Plateau States following an intense search by the Police team for the perpetrators of the crime and follow-up on recent spike in Kidnapping/armed robbery in Taraba and the North-Central States of the Country. They are Yusuf Abubakar, 31yrs native of Jalingo LGA Taraba state, Muntari Umar, 27yrs Native of Mayo Belwa LGA Adamawa State, Ahmadu Dahiru, 28yrs, native of Lau LGA, Taraba State, Ali Alhaji Wurungo, 25yrs native of Lau LGA Taraba State, Buhari Nuhu, 25yrs, native of Jalingo LGA, Mohd GARBA, 30yrs, native of Mararaban Gasol, Taraba State, Yusuf Jibrillah 23yrs, native of Mararaban Gasol Taraba State, Adamu Ahmadu aka Bulala 32yrs, native of Taraba State and one Idi Suleiman. Investigations by the Police team revealed that the suspects are members of a notorious armed robbery/kidnapping syndicate that specializes in terrorizing innocent citizens in the North-Central/North East States particularly in Plateau and Taraba States.  Police investigations also uncovered the roles played by each member of the gang during the kidnap of the Hon Member. Investigations also established how the proceeds of the crime (ransom) were shared among the suspects. The Police operatives also arrested a 12-man cybercrime syndicate for internet fraud and other cyber-related offences. The suspects,  aged within the range of twenty-two (22) and thirty (30), were arrested at a residence in Kubwa area of the Federal capital Territory (FCT), Abuja following intelligence received by the Police.  Speaking while parading the suspects, Force Public Relations Officer, CP Frank Mba supported by DCP Abba Kyari and DCP Kolo Yusuf said, “Similarly, the Police team busted a 2-man gang of a 61-year-old physically challenged man, Musa Usman from Kebbi State who resides in Anambra State and one Ahmed Shuaibu, 27years, native of Nasarawa State for complicity in the distribution and sale of illicit/dangerous drugs to bandits in their camps at Babuga, Nasarawa State. “The physically challenged man has been taking advantage of his physical state to evade police attention until his eventual arrest. Thirty-five wraps of substance suspected to be Cocaine, were recovered from the suspects”.  The Inspector General of Police, while noting that the Operation Puff Adder II is already yielding positive results barely ten (10) days after it was flagged-off, has assured that the Force will not relent in its commitment at re-dominating and reclaiming the public space from criminals that are hell bent on threatening the internal security order of the country and bringing such suspects to justice. Following the launch of ‘Operation Puff Adder II’ by the Inspector General of Police, IGP Mohammed Adamu on 15th February 2021, to reinvigorate the ongoing fight against violent crimes in the country and bring the perpetrators to book, operatives of the FIB Intelligence Response Team and Special Tactical Squad of… February 25, 2021 In "News" The Nigeria Police says it has arrested 48 suspects in connection with kidnapping, murder, armed robbery, cattle rustling, cyber crimes, unlawful possession of prohibited weapons and other related offences in the country. February 25, 2021 In "News" The Nigeria Police on Thursday paraded fifty-nine (59) kidnapping, armed robbery and cattle rustling gangs including those responsible for the kidnap and murder of Vice Chairman of Abaji area council and other recent kidnapings and armed robberies in Kaduna, Niger, Katsina, Zamfara and Sokoto States. November 30, 2018 In "News"