9mobile, a telecommunication company, says it has commenced the National Identification Number (NIN) registration exercise in selected experience centres in Lagos and Abuja. The telco in a statement on Monday said that the development followed  Federal Government’s approval granting telecoms the licence for NIN enrollment to ease the pressure of large crowd turnout at the various enrollment centres of the Nigeria Identity Management Commission (NIMC). The Chief Commercial Officer, 9mobile, Stjepan Udovicic said:  “9mobile  will always seek opportunities to collaborate with regulators and other stakeholders on initiatives that will enable Nigerians to achieve their full potential. ” We are pleased to announce the commencement of NIN enrollment at select experience centres duly approved by NIMC to help expand registration access to Nigerians ahead of the new deadline set by the government for the exercise,” Udovicic said. According to him, 9mobile experience centres offering NIN registration includes 43 Adeola Odeku, Victoria Island, Lagos; 31, Marina Road, Marina, Lagos and Royal Plaza, 23 Road by 402 junctions, Festac Town, Lagos. Udovicic said that others include  9mobile Regional Office, 8 Kikuyi close, off Aminu Kano, Wuse 2, Abuja and Plot 1774, Adetokunbo Ademola Crescent, Wuse 2, Abuja. He urged customers and intending enrollees to observe all guidelines for limiting the spread of COVID-19, including wearing of face masks and maintaining social/physical distancing. Udovicic noted that strict observance of guidelines would be fully enforced at the experience centres. He added that 9mobile was working on expanding the NIN registration centres to make them accessible to more Nigerians soon. Vanguard News Nigeria Innovative and customer-friendly telecommunication company, 9mobile, today announced the launch of its intelligent portal for instant verification to help its customers link their SIM cards with their National Identification Number (NIN). The Online Self-Service NIN update portal www.9mobile.com.ng/nin, which has already gone live on the 9mobile website, enables subscribers to… December 19, 2020 In "News" Telecom giant, 9mobile has announced the launch of its intelligent portal for instant verification to help its customers link their SIM cards with their National Identification Number (NIN). December 20, 2020 In "News" By Rasheed Sobowale The Federal Government of Nigeria in its bid to stem criminal activities has through the Nigeria Communication Commission (NCC) mandated that all Subscriber Identification Module (SIM) be linked with National Identity Number (NIN). This is to allow governmental and other accredited agencies to be able to access… December 24, 2020 In "Technology"