Armed bandits have razed the building of the Holy Family Catholic Church, and two homes, in Kikwari village, Kajuru local government area of Kaduna state. Samuel Aruwan ,Commissioner, Ministry of Internal Security and Home Affairs, Kaduna State,said on Sunday, that locals fled the area on receiving information that some bandits were sighted outside the village. “On getting to the location, the armed bandits set ablaze the place of worship and the two houses,” he said. Receiving the report, Governor El-Rufai commiserated with the community, and condemned the setting ablaze of the place of worship and two houses by armed bandits. The Governor empathized with the church and assured them that the government under his watch would continue to work hard in the fight against banditry and other crimes. He charged worshippers to remain strong in their faith and devotion, and see it as an act perpetrated by enemies of peace, humanity and diversity who will not succeed but will be defeated by the grace of God. The Governor has directed the Kaduna State Emergency Management Agency to urgently assess the damage done and take appropriate action. “Security agencies will sustain patrols in the area,” Aruwan said. Vanguard News Nigeria By Wole Mosadomi &Shehu Danjuma Armed bandits have killed no fewer than 14 persons in Niger and Kastina states. While the bandits invaded Ruwan Godiya village of Faskari Local Government Area of Katsina State, killing eight persons, injuring three other persons and kidnapping one person, they also attacked Kagara town, headquarters… October 13, 2020 In "News" About 40 gunmen on Wednesday night struck at a community in Chikun local government area of Kaduna State where they abducted 3 ladies. August 20, 2020 In "News" By Ibrahim HassanWuyo Armed bandits have attacked Garawa village of Fatika District, Giwa local government area of Kaduna state, killing two locals. Samuel Aruwan, Commissioner, Ministry of Internal Security and Home Affairs, Kaduna State, said on Monday that one Alhaju Saadu was killed by the bandits, while some citizens were… February 1, 2021 In "News"