AS the constitution review process is on going, the President of the Senate, Senator Ahmad Lawan yesterday asked Nigerians, especially those agitating for additional states, to take such issues they feel strongly about to the National Assembly. Speaking yesterday in Abuja when a delegation of the Enugu State Committee on the creation of Adada state visited him in his office at the National Assembly, Lawan told his guests that they were in order by taking their request to the National Assembly. The delegation which included former Minister of Information and the immediate past President-General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Chief John Nnia Nwodo, was led by Chief Vita Abba. The meeting was facilitated by Senator Chukwuka Utazi, Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Enugu North. Lawan said:  “You are in order. You are at the right place. This is the people’s Assembly, saddled with the responsibility and mandate of receiving and listening to Nigerians who desire one form of legislative Intervention or the other to ensure that Nigeria is stable, peaceful, that people live in harmony and trust. “So your quest for the creation of Adada, you are welcome. We are going to give you every opportunity and support that will be necessary for the creation of the Adada State. “It is a constitutional and legitimate agitation. Nigerians should take the opportunity of the Constitutional review process that the ninth Senate and indeed the National Assembly have embarked upon. “This is about the creation of Adada state. But there are so many other opportunities to better the lot of our people through constitutional amendment. “So I am taking this opportunity to appeal to Nigerians who feel strongly about certain issues – how we live together, how we secure our people and any other matter under the sun that Nigerians feel very strongly about, that the constitution should have or should not have. “This is the time to take that opportunity to come to the National Assembly and make the case. We are here for Nigerians. Lawan   assured his visitors that “we are going to be supportive of your cause.” Earlier, Chief Abba and Chief Nwodo spoke separately to solicit the support of the Senate President and indeed the National Assembly for their demand for the creation of Adada state from the present Enugu state. Abba said:  “Today, we want to tell you that, not only is Adada sustainable, Adada has all it takes to be a state. We have the manpower. We have the resources.” ...Moddibo Adama Varsity sets to transform into new status - VC By Henry Umoru PRESIDENT   of the Senate, Senator Ahmad Lawan, said yesterday that the National Assembly has no reason whatsoever to fight President Muhammadu Buhari in order to please anybody in the country. Lawan stated this when he received… January 20, 2021 In "News" AFTER over two months of posturing and horse-trading, the adopted candidates of the ruling All Progressives Congress, APC, yesterday, emerged leaders of the Ninth National Assembly. June 12, 2019 In "Headlines" SENATE President, Ahmad Lawan, yesterday, said that the leadership of the Ninth Assembly would not be a rubber stamp as being speculated. June 20, 2019 In "News"