The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, Ibadan zonal office, has secured the conviction of a former Deputy Chief Registrar of the Oyo State High Court, Mutiat Omobola Adio, over a dud cheque she issued. Adio was convicted after pleading guilty to a fresh charge bordering on obtaining money by false pretence and issuance of dishonoured cheque contrary to Sections 419 of the Criminal Code Law, Cap. 38, Laws of Oyo State, 2000 and Section 1 (1) (b) of the Dishonored Cheque (Offences) Act, Cap. D11, Laws of the Federation of Nigeria, 2004. She was accused of having obtained a 2000 Model Toyota Pathfinder SUV valued at N1.5m from one Fabunmi Olatunji Samuel of Fatai Olanrewaju Motors by pretending to him that it would be paid once the cheque she issued him in the said value is presented to her bank. The victim released the said vehicle to her but the cheque was dishonoured within three months of issuance for insufficient funds in the account. Upon arraignment on January 30, 2018, the defendant had initially pleaded not guilty to the charges but later changed her plea to ‘guilty’, after a plea bargain agreement leading to the amendment of the charge. Justice Owolabi thereafter pronounced the defendant guilty of the offence and sentenced her to three years in prison. The Court also ordered her to restitute to her victim one Fabunmi Olatunji Samuel of Fatai Olanrewaju Motors the sum of N500,000 in addition to the sum of N1m she had previously paid in the restitution of the victim. With the latest development, Adio, has been convicted thrice having previously been jailed twice for fraud on May 18, 2018, she was sentenced to seven years imprisonment for obtaining N9.2 million from one Abiodun Olonade, a Nigerian resident in Ireland, by false pretence. Also, on March 6, 2020, she was convicted and sentenced to five years in prison for stealing a sum of N22,375,913. Vanguard News Nigeria An Ikeja high court, yesterday, ordered a businessman, Sayyu Zakari, to be remanded in Kano prison after he was arraigned for allegedly duping a distributor of Dangote Noodles of N18.1 million. February 12, 2014 In "News" The Economic and Financial Crime Commission (EFCC) on Tuesday arraigned a 48-year-old man, Emeka Onwunyi at a FCT High Court in Nyanya charged with issuing N8 million dud cheque. February 26, 2019 In "Crime Alert" A former manager with the Union bank Plc, Mr Alex Nkenchor and one Ebi Odeigah of GMT Securities and Assets Nigeria Limited, were yesterday remanded in prison custody over alleged N860 million fraud. October 13, 2009 In "News"