Chairman, national reconciliation and strategy committee of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Senator Bukola Saraki has assured the readiness of former governors elected on the platform of the party to bring in new faces as part of its rebuilding process in preparation for the 2023 general election. Saraki who stated this after hours of a meeting of the committee with the former governors, Wednesday, also ruled out any possibility of the latter leaving the PDP for another party. Briefing newsmen at the party’s secretariat, Saraki said having earlier met with former President, Goodluck Jonathan; it was only apt for the committee to interface with the former governors and hear their grievances against the party. “We have gotten their assurances that they are not going anywhere; instead they are going to bring in more people. Yesterday (Tuesday), we met with our former President. Today (Wednesday), we are consulting with our former governors who are our key stakeholders. “We had a very useful and productive meeting. They (ex-governors) have all shown their commitment towards the party and their readiness to go and strengthen our party in their states and the national level to ensure that the PDP is well prepared for the 2023 election. “I want to see them more active because their silence sometimes might be misinterpreted, but they’ve promised me and the committee that they will be more active workers of the party. You will hear more of their voices now that they have spoken up,” he said. In attendance were former Anambra state governor, Peter Obi, immediate past Kwara state governor, Abdulfatai Ahmed; erstwhile Sokoto state governor, Attahiru Bafarawa and immediate past Ekiti state governor, Ayodele Fayose. Others included Ibrahim Shema, Boni Haruna, Ahmed Makarfi, Gabriel Suswam, Sam Egwu, Emmanuel Uduaghan, Ramalan Yero, Babangida Aliyu, Ibrahim Idris, Wada Idris, and Liyel Imoke, former governors of Katsina, Adamawa, Kaduna, Benue, Ebonyi, Delta, Kaduna, Niger, Login and Cross River states respectively. Vanguard News Nigeria Rules out ex-President defection to APC By Dirisu Yakubu As the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, begins skeletal preparations for the 2023 general elections, immediate past President of the Senate, Dr Bukola Saraki has assured the party faithful of the commitment of ex-President, Goodluck Jonathan to avail the PDP of his… February 16, 2021 In "Politics" Former President of the Senate, Bukola Saraki has advised politicians, irrespective of political parties, to put their 2023 political ambition on hold and focus on solutions to security challenges facing Nigeria. December 3, 2020 In "News" The Federal Government in its first formal response to the gale of defections from the ruling All Progressives Congress, APC, yesterday described the exit of Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki, as a good riddance that would remove obstacles to the delivery of good governance. August 2, 2018 In "Headlines"