The National Primary Health Centre in Ikare Akoko the headquarters of Akoko North East council area of Ondo state has been gutted by fire. Vanguard learnt that the inferno was caused by bush burning. The facility had been abandoned by the federal government for years. Reports had it that residents around the facility made frantic efforts to put the fire under control but the fence of the compound housing the project remained a serious obstacle as no one could scale it. When the officials of the fire service in Ikare Akoko were contacted, the complained of lack of functional vehicle. The facility, according to a signboard at the entrance of the building is a constituency project of a former member of the House of Representatives Hon Stephen Olemija who then represented Akoko North West and Akoko North East constituency in the National Assembly. Speaking with newsmen, a community Leader in Ikare Akoko , Chief Teddy Ojuolape described the fire incident as unfortunate and a colossal loss considering the huge fund committed into the project but which was later abandoned. Ojuolape however called for a probe into the incident. The residents in the community advocated legislation against bush burning and appealed to the state government to adequately equip the fire service to make them perform optimally. Recall that another Federal government facility, a Muilti Million Naira Power Station situated in Oke Agbe Akoko was last year gutted by fire due to bush burning by youths. The same facility had been abandoned by the federal government in the council for years Vanguard News Nigeria It has been a year since Hon. Olubunmi Tunji-Ojo was elected on February 23, 2019, as a member representing the people of Akoko North East and North West Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives, but that is not the gist. The gist is the fact that the last 365… June 7, 2020 In "News" Hon. Bunmi Tunji-Ojo, popularly called BTO is not a new comer in Ondo politics. Over the years, his name has grown to become a household name in the Akoko area where he hails from. In the 2019 elections, he will be flying the ticket of the All Progressives Congress (APC)… December 30, 2018 In "News" THOUSANDS of members of the Alliance for Democracy, AD, including its only member in the Ondo State House of Assembly, Hon Abiodun Ogunbi and Action Congress, AC, Sunday decamped to the ruling Labour Party, LP, in the state. April 25, 2010 In "News"