The Nigeria School Sports Federation (NSSF) will soon organise its first Board Championships nationwide, the federation’s President, Olabisi Joseph, said on Thursday in Lagos. Joseph told NAN the championships would enable all students in the country to be involved in one sport or the other. “Not all students will be interested in football and athletics. It has become necessary to explore other areas of sports,” she said. The NSSF President added that most board games helped players improve on their mental alertness and helped them think critically and plan. Board games are sports that involve counters or pieces moved or placed on a pre-marked surface, such as monopoly, drought, scrabble and chess. “We need to engage these students, and I understand that not everyone will be interested in football or track and field and basketball. “So, we should be interested in what happens to those that are interested in other sports. “Sports such as chess, scrabble, monopoly and draught will help a lot. “Take for instance, scrabble. It helps you build your vocabulary and also think critically so that you can attract more points. “The same thing goes for monopoly, which will educate you about finances, when to buy, when not to, and how to plan. ”So, when they apply all these skills, it makes them well grounded as adults. “These and more are some of the reasons we decided that these championships will hold and help us develop talents. “We need to focus on these sports too. Not every child will be an (Austin) Okocha or (Nwankwo) Kanu or a Mary Onyali,” Joseph said. The NSSF President added that the Championships would hold sometime in March on dates yet to be announced. Joseph also added that dance was going to be one of the focal points for the federation, saying dance was another form of exercise recommended by physicians. “Dance is also one aspect that we will explore. We are serious about this, and we are in talks with some state government who will partner with us,” she said. The NSSF President also reiterated their commitment to capacity-building like it did in 2020, saying training sports administrators across the country would continue quarterly. Vanguard News Nigeria No fewer than 518 administrators and teachers participated in the just-concluded three days retreat facilitated by the Nigeria School Sports Federation, NSSF, in affiliation with the International School Sports Federation. The training, which held from July 21 to July 23 was tagged “Towards Effective Teaching of Physical and Health Education… July 27, 2020 In "Education" The Nigeria School Sports Federation, NSSF, on Friday, said that the essence of its just-concluded seminar on ‘Anti-doping for Schools’ Sports Masters in the country was to curb the menace of doping at the grassroots. August 29, 2020 In "Sports" The All Nigeria Secondary Schools Football Championship tagged NNPC/Shell Cup which many thought has been rested will still hold after all with state preliminaries already on nationwide. December 22, 2009 In "Sports"