Youths of Ogulogu Olo autonomous community in Ezeagu local government area of Enugu State, through self-help effort, have embarked on the construction of a 3.7 kilometer road in the community to ameliorate the hardship their people go through on their dilapidated roads. Flagging off the road construction, the chairman, Ezeagu Council area, Chief Marius Ani said that it was rare in communities across the state to see youths mobilize and undertake capital projects in a community for development. Ani commended the youths of Ogulogu Olo community for the initiative, saying that the community remains one of the most peaceful autonomous communities in the council area. According to the chairman, by the action of the youths, they have keyed into the developmental projects of Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi in opening rural roads. Chief Ani assured that the council would assist in any little way depending on the availability of fund.
He noted that the mobilization of the youths of the community was an extra initiative for the development of the community in particular and the state in general. He also praised individuals in the council who have been maintaining the road over the years to ensure it was not cut off by the devastating erosion in the area. The chairman called on other communities in the council area to emulate the initiative of Ogulogu Olo autonomous community to champion developmental projects than waiting for government. In his remarks, the youth coordinator Ogulogu Olo autonomous community, Chief Johnmary Anigolu said that the youths mobilized to site on construction of the 3.7 kilometer road as the community has never witnessed any government project. Cashing in on the security channels of Enugu State Governor, Hon. Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, the monarch-elect of Ozalla/Obogidi autnomous community in Nsukka Local Government Area, High Chief Asadu Samuel Ikechukwu has donated an SUV to Edem Ani Community Neigbourhood Watch to assist the state government in security issues in the area. May 2, 2018 In "Metro" Uneasy calm pervade communities in Uzo-Uwani local government area of Enugu State as herdsmen on Wednesday allegedly shot dead the secretary of the local government council for undisclosed reasons along Olo town in Ezragu local government area of the state. March 21, 2019 In "News" The people of Ogulogu-Olo in Ezeagu Local government area, Enugu State have called on police authorities to fish out killers of one of their illustrious sons, Cajetan Osondu Nweke who met his untimely death in the hands of kidnappers after a ransom of N1million was paid. June 15, 2013 In "Crime Guard"