The Anambra State Government has announced the introduction of curfew in the state to help check the spread of COVID-19 virus. The curfew which will last from 9pm to 6am daily, will start on Monday, 8th February, 2021 until further notice. Announcing the new COVID-19 preventive measures, the Secretary to the state government, Professor Solo Chukwulobelu, said Governor Willie Obiano has directed that civil servants in the state, from grade level 1 to 12 should work from home until further notice, with immediate effect. Professor Chukwulobelu also announced other measures the state government is taking to help stop the spread of COVID-19 in the state. Part of the statement reads “The state government has activated and made operational mobile courts to try COVID-19 protocol offenders, beginning from Monday, 8th February, 2021. “Also, the state COVID-19 Task Force, including the Ministry of Health, and Ministry of Trade and Commerce have been empowered to increase their hospitals and markets surveillance, and to close immediately, any hospital (private and government owned), and markets that do not comply with COVID-19 protocols in their operations.” Vanguard News Nigeria Gov. Willie Obiano of Anambra has directed civil servants in the state to work from their homes for the next 14 days as part of measures to curb the spread of Coronavirus with effect from Tuesday till further notice. Obiano, in a statement on Monday, said all public gatherings including… March 24, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" The Anambra government on Saturday announced the suspension of the Anambra State Football Association (AnSFA) Board and Local Football Councils (LFCs) 2020 Elections scheduled for Monday and Tuesday respectively in Awka. C-Don Adinuba, the state’s Commissioner for Information and Public Enlightenment, said in a statement that government had not lifted… July 26, 2020 In "Sports" Anambra State Governor, Chief Willie Obiano, has announced the imposition of curfew on Aguleri, Umueri and Umuoba Anam towns, all in Anambra East Local Government Area of Anambra State. The measure put in place some hours after crisis erupted between two neighbouring communities of Umueri and Aguleri is to stem… January 17, 2021 In "Metro"