Director-General of the Progressive Governors’ Forum PGF, Salihu Moh. Lukman has kicked against any attempt to admit a former Aviation minister and chieftain of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party PDP, Chief Femi Fani-Kayode into the ruling All Progressives Congress APC, saying to do so would tantamount to ‘rewarding scandalous behaviour’. Lukman in a statement issued Tuesday and titled “APC: Reminder about Our Values”, said as a progressive party, the APC should not be for someone like Fani-Kayode, asking whether the party leadership would also contemplate admitting secessionist agitator, Nnamdi Kanu or Boko Haram leader, Abubakar Shekau into its fold. “For our leaders to associate themselves with Mr Fani-Kayode, is simply rewarding scandalous behaviour. Mr Fani-Kayode has fabricated stories, distorted, insulted and damaged information about our party and our leaders. The elementary rule of decency would require some good distance between our leaders and such a person. “Not even the Ward leaders where he is located should be associated with him except for reasons of family ties. By the way, the Caretaker Committee of our party should avoid a situation whereby it takes a decision on issues that are very weighty without consultations. On no account should anyone with the kind of baggage of Mr Fani-Kayode be invited to join the party without clearance from a statutory structure of the party? In this particular instance, the National Caucus should be the clearinghouse”, the PGF boss stated. He expressed confidence in President Muhammadu Buhari not to approve the “deranged possibility” of having to subject Nigerians to one day wake up to see pictures of APC leaders presenting Fani-Kayode to him as a member of the party. Lukman’s admonition came in the wake of pictures which emerged Monday evening of Fani-Kayode with the Chairman of the Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee CECPC, Gov. Mai Mala Buni of Yobe state and Gov. Yahaya Bello of Kogi state who spearheads the APC Membership Mobilization drive. “Around the late evening of Monday, February 8, 2021, Nigerian media, especially social media, became alive with photos of our National Chairman, HE Mai Mala Buni and our Kogi State Governor, HE Yahaya Bello, in the company of Mr Femi Fani-Kayode, a notable leader of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). The speculation is that Mr Fani-Kayode is on his way to joining the APC. The verdict in most media platforms is quite disturbing, but justifiably so, if the news about Mr Fani-Kayode joining the APC is true”, he stated. Part of the statement reads;
“That our leaders will be meeting with Mr Fani-Kayode in such a compromising way, suggesting that he may be on his way to joining our party, clearly indicates that either those of us saddled with the responsibility of advising them have failed or we have been completely cut off. “How can a person who just a few days, if not a few hours ago wrote to one of our leaders and derogatorily and condescendingly condemned his political prospects of emerging as the Presidential candidate of our party, be given such a high-level reception? Assuming the open letter to our National Leader, which is all over our media at the time of such reception, wasn’t offensive, what of the open letter he wrote to President Muhammadu Buhari last year? “Besides the open letters, what abusive language has he not used against our party and our leaders? Most of these are unprintable. A typical example of the kind of abuses he spat on our leaders and our party can be demonstrated with his response to a tweet by Mr Femi Adesina, Special Adviser to President Buhari on Information, last May 2020. Mr Adesina argued that President Buhari’s emergence as President saved the country. Responding, Mr Fani-Kayode said: ‘Not so my friend. The emergence of Buhari in 2015 annihilated Nigeria and plunged her into darkness, death and destruction. He came to steal, kill and destroy and for the last disastrous 5 years that is all he has done.’ “Compared to most of Mr Fani-Kayode’s barrages of insults on APC and its leaders, this would appear to be very civil. Most Nigerians, both APC members and non-APC members would appear to be in agreement that any association between APC and its leadership with Mr Fani-Kayode is indicative of the problem of values. APC not for Kanus, Shakaus “Without being academic in any way, the issue of values is basically about the qualities of people and the vision they hold. What kind of people are we aspiring to attract into our party? Do we want to reduce our party into one in which everybody is welcome? Can we for instance in any way or form contemplate having a Nnamdi Kanu or Abubakar Shekau as a member? If that were to be the case, why don’t we just have INEC register IPOB and Boko Haram as political parties and allow them to field candidates for elections? “We may be tempted to argue that Mr Fani-Kayode is not Nnamdi Kanu or Abubakar Shekau. It is however difficult to fathom what qualifies him to be associated with our leaders at that high level? At this rate, one day, Nigerians will just wake and see some of our leaders presenting Mr Fani-Kayode to President Buhari as a new member of our party. Although we can confidently argue that President Buhari will not approve such deranged possibility, it is important to caution that such consideration will be stretching the trust of party members beyond acceptable limits. “Although issues of values in politics easily gets compromised, as Mr Barack Obama, former President of the United States cautioned in the book The Audacity of Hope – Thoughts on Reclaiming the American Dream, it is important to appeal to our leaders to moderate their consideration in terms of who they associate with, especially if it will lead to an invitation to joining the APC. “Mr. Obama in particular noted ‘the fact that the practice of modern politics itself seems to be value-free. Politics (and political commentary) not only allows but often rewards behaviour that we would normally think of as scandalous: fabricating stories, distorting the obvious meaning of what other people say, insulting or generally questioning their motives, poking through their personal affairs in search of damaging information.’ “APC emerged with a commitment to social democracy. Social democracy is about the values of collective justice and individual freedom where everyone’s basic needs are fulfilled. This, among others, upholds respect for the dignity of the individual party members. We need to appeal to all our leaders, especially the Chairman of the Caretaker Committee and all the thirteen members to always remember that they are entrusted with the responsibility they have today to democratise our party. They are not Sole Administrators. To democratise will require more meetings and consultations. Their actions should reflect decisions taken at meetings or at least from wider consultations!”, Lukman counselled. Vanguard News Nigeria By Omeiza Ajayi - Abuja Director General of the Progressive Governors' Forum (PGF), Salihu Moh. Lukman, has kicked against any attempt to admit a former Aviation minister and chieftain of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Chief Femi Fani-Kayode into the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), saying to do so… February 9, 2021 In "News" Director General of the Progressive Governors Forum PGF, Salihu Moh. Lukman has asked the leadership of his ruling All Progressives Congress APC to embark on genuine reconciliation of its leaders as well as a deliberate healing process among all its structures if it must succeed in the task of ensuring… July 28, 2019 In "News" By Omeiza Ajayi - Abuja The Forum of State Chairmen of the All Progressives Congress APC has thrown its weight behind their National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole in the face of calls for his resignation by the Director-General of the Progressive Governors Forum PGF, Salihu Moh. Lukman. The forum in… November 14, 2019 In "Politics"