 THE League of Professionals for Strategic Advocacy, LEPSA has commiserated with the Governor of Delta State,  Dr. Ifeanyi Arthur Okowa over the death of his father. The group also commiserated with the Speaker and members of the State House of Assembly and the people of Isoko North Constituency over the demise of Hon Tim Kome Owhefere. Sir Arthur Okorie Okowa passed on peacefully in the early hours of last week Thursday while Hon Tim Kome Owhefere who took his last breath at about 11:30 pm last week Wednesday night was representing Isoko North Constituency in the State House of Assembly and Majority Leader of the House. The group in two separate statements signed by its convener, Prince Obaro Unsafe, its Chairman, Pius Mordi, and Fred Akpewe, secretary, extolled the virtues of Pa Okorie Okowa who was a father to all. The group in the statement said: “From his younger days as a teacher, Pa Okowa devoted his life to raising a generation of well trained and morally upright young men and women”. “The sterling proof of Pa Okowa’s success in mentoring young people to imbibe quality education is the impressive performance of the young Arthur Ifeanyi Okowa, his first son, who qualified as a Medical Doctor at a very youthful age, leading his siblings along the path charted by their father”. Also, the group described the late Hon. Tim Kome Owhefere as an extraordinary lawmaker who had an imprint in most of the policies and legislative initiatives that transformed the state. Saying the late Hon Tim  Owhefere was a peacemaker and consensus builder, the group said his death was a huge loss to the legislature and the entire state. The group in the statement said; “Hon. Owhefere was a rallying point for major policy thrusts that have had a profound effect in developing the state. The late lawmaker and politician had a distinguished career that endeared him to his constituency. “We pray for the repose of his soul and for his family the fortitude to bear the huge loss at this difficult time.” Vanguard News Nigeria The Minority Caucus of the House of Representatives Friday, consoled the Governor of Delta State, Senator Dr Ifeanyi Okowa over the passing of his father, Sir Okorie Uzoma Arthur Okowa, on Thursday, January 28, 2021. January 30, 2021 In "News" FORMER Executive Director, Projects of the Niger Delta Development Commission NDDC, Engr Samuel Adjogbe, has condoled with the Governor of Delta State, Dr Ifeanyi Okowa over the demise of his father, Sir Arthur Okorie Okowa and the Majority Leader and Chairman, House Committee on Information of the Delta State House… January 29, 2021 In "News" The majority Leader and Honourable Member representing Isoko North Constituency, Hon. Sir Tim Kome Owhefere Esquire, has denied making political statements that he would not contest for any political position in 2023, urging the general public to disregard the fake news. Disclosing this in a statement signed by Palmer Ogheneyole… September 8, 2020 In "News"