Unknown bandits have abducted seven commuters along Ilesa-Akure express road. It was gathered that the kidnapped victims were traveling towards Akure on Monday, when the bandits, wielding arms, stopped their bus and abducted the seven occupants. Vanguard gathered that the bandits while releasing three of the kidnapped victims, a man and two women, on Tuesday, instructed them to go and look for money to secure the release of the four other victims. They were also said to have told the released victims that they are Fulani bandits in need of money and not armed robbers. Confirming the incident, the Osun Amotekun Corps Commandant, Brigadier-General Bashir Adewinmbi said the bandits have moved deep into the forest, but Amotekun personnel have need deployed to the area combing the forest for the bandits and their victims. “It is true seven person were kidnapped on Monday night, three have been released while four were still held captives. Amotekun in conjunction with Oodua People’s Congress and other security agencies have been searching for the victims. I have also visited the scene and we will not relent in our effort to ensure the other victims regain their freedom”, he said. Also, the state OPC Coordinator, Prince Deji Aladesawe corroborated the claim, saying the bandits voluntarily released three of the victims and ordered them to go look for money to secure the release of others. “We are working with Amotekun personnel to comb the forest to ensure the release of other victims. They have released three persons and send a message through the release victims that they are fulanis bandits in need of money. “The bandits also mandated the freed victims to go look for money to secure the release of the four other victims still in their custody”, he said. As at the time of filing this report, the state police spokesperson, Yemisi Opalola has not picked her call in order to react to the story. Vanguard News Nigeria …6 killed in Kagara, Rafi LGA, 17 others cut down at Dukku, Magama LGA …Commercial bank raided, unspecified cash carted away …6 bandits killed, says CP …Niger govt sues for calm over attacks …Amotekun men arrest three kidnappers in Ondo …We've  spent billions on Security — el-Rufai …10 soldiers killed… September 4, 2020 In "News" …Free 5 others after payment of ransom …Police arrest village head, 10 others for banditry By Wole Mosadomi The village head of Madaka in Rafi Local Government Area of Niger State, Zakari Ya’u Idris, has been reportedly killed by gunmen over the inability of his people to raise money demanded… December 28, 2020 In "News" Their harrowing experience in the hands of armed bandits for 55 days is better imagined. Deep inside the forest where the bandits’ camp was located, the abducted women and children were kept in the open, beaten by the rain and the sun and fed with a half ration of barely… October 12, 2019 In "News"