Music sensation, Makayla Malaka popularly known as Makayla is an amazing eight years old who is continuously proving that there is no age limit when it comes to making good music. Ever since she released her first ever single, “Just Dance”, at the age of 7, Makayla has continuously delivered great content. Her debut album ‘Eight’ was released on her 8th birthday in June 2020 and included many great tunes including her hit track ‘Grandma Told Me’ which fellow child stars Emmanuella and Aunty Success raved about on social media. Makayla has once again not disappointed her fans as she has just released a fresh single titled ‘Don’t Give Up’ which is set to take the airwaves by storm. The strength of her vocals and message in her lyrics are just some of the reasons it is safe to say that this budding talent is indeed here to stay. Makayla plans to release her sophomore album later in June this year, on her 9th birthday and we are convinced that it will definitely be packed with great content. Talents like Makayla’s are a great encouragement that there is indeed a bright future for the Nigerian music scene. Check out her new single Don’t Give Up’ on all music streaming platforms. Vanguard News Nigeria By Ayo Onikoyi In a world where almost every entertainment content is created and targeted at teenagers and adults only; the creative industry especially the Nigerian entertainment industry has unjustly sidelined a vital demography which are one of the largest consumers of entertainment contents; kids. The Nigerian kids often times… July 4, 2020 In "Entertainment" enevieve Nnaji was the first Nollywood actress to delve into music, after she was suspended from acting alongside some of her colleagues in 2005. She released her first single, “No More” which earned her a mouth-watering recording deal in Ghana, before she went underground. February 6, 2016 In "Entertainment" Rising female singer, Ugochi Onuoha, a.k.a Guchi has expressed concern that most Nigerian artistes are yet to find their sounds, despite the fact that their songs are gaining traction on radio and social media. April 27, 2019 In "Entertainment"