FEUDING parties in the crisis that engulfed Shasha area of Ibadan in Akinyele Local Government area at the weekend have begun to count their losses after normalcy returned to the trouble spots. Vanguard gathered that many people died in the crisis which started last week Friday at the popular market, while vehicles and shops were burnt. According to information gathered, some people are still missing now with leaders of the parties in the crisis leading the search teams. When Vanguard called one of the leaders in the market simply identified as Alhaji Ciroma, he said, it was true that we buried some of our people on Sunday. Ciroma whose voice was hoarse as a result of the trauma told Vanguard, “Yes, it is true some of our people were buried on Sunday. Even now, we are still looking for others.” He faulted the report of a certain special adviser to Governor Seyi Makinde on the crisis saying it didn’t reflect what actually happened. Vanguard also gathered that about 3,000 people were displaced and are now taking shelter with their people in other parts of the city. Also, a man from the other side of the crisis who did not identify himself said some of their people have been killed during the crisis. “Do you know that we lost one popular man Adex, and others whose whereabouts we don’t know as of now.” “Almost all our shops have been burnt by arsonists. We cannot estimate what we have lost to the crisis. Those who sustained injuries cannot yet be determined until the tension is over”. A reliable source told Vanguard that some people were being escorted out of the trouble spots by security agents to Moniya area of the city while some reportedly relocated to Mokola area of the city. Meanwhile, peace has returned to the market but there was a handful of people under a tree discussing the crisis. Unlike Friday and Saturday when both human and vehicular traffic were paralysed, some trucks loaded with tubers of yams were seen coming from Shasha- Ojoo end of the road to Sango. But, some truck drivers who were afraid of being caught up in the crisis sold their tomatoes at giveaway prices before getting to the market and headed back to Ilorin-Ogbomosho road. The line of the State Police Public Relations Officer, CSP Gbenga Fadeyi did not connect when Vanguard called him. Vanguard News Nigeria Akeredolu preaches peace I’ll resist fifth columnists from destabilising Oyo —Makinde Criminal acts shouldn’t be treated as ethnic conflict -—Osinbajo Investigate clash, OPC charges Buhari, Makinde How crisis started —Community leader We lost property worth several millions of naira —Victims By Dapo Akinrefon, Ola Ajayi, & Deola Badru SOUTH-West governors,… February 15, 2021 In "News" By Rotimi Ojomoyela - Ado-Ekiti Worried at the violent clash between some Yoruba and Hausa traders in Shasha market, Ibadan Oyo State capital at the weekend, Ekiti State Governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi has called on the warring parties to sheath their swords. The violent clash had reportedly led to the… February 13, 2021 In "News" Residents of Shasha Akowonjo, under the auspices of Landlords and Residents Association have sent a Save our Soul, SoS appeal to the Lagos State Governor, Mr Babatunde Fashola over what they described as an attempt by an agency of the state government to forcibly seize and demolish their structures in… September 9, 2013 In "Metro"