Gov. Adegboyega Oyetola of Osun State has advised residents of the state to always adhere strictly to COVID-19 guidelines to contain its spread. Oyetola gave the advice during a COVID-19 sensitisation programme held at motor parks and markets in Iwo town, Osun, on Sunday. He said that non-compliance with the prescribed COVID-19 protocols would make the disease spread faster. Gov. Oyetola was represented by his Special Adviser on Civic Engagement, Tunbosun Oyintiloye. The governor urged residents to take responsibility in the containment of COVID-19 pandemic that is ravaging the entire world. “We must wake up to the reality that COVID-19 is real; unlike what we witnessed in the first wave, the second wave we are witnessing now is more deadly. “The rate at which people are contracting the virus coupled with the number of recorded deaths on a daily basis calls for serious precautions on our part,’’ Oyetola said. The governor said the essence of the sensitisation programme was to remind residents, especially market women and drivers, on the need to follow all the prescribed guidelines to win the war against the virus. In his remarks, Mr Yinusa Amobi, a member of House of Representatives, representing Iwo Federal Constituency, also urged residents of the town to support government in minimising the spread of the virus by following all the guidelines. In his contribution, Mr Rafiu Ayofe, the Chairman of All Progressives Congress, Iwo Local Government, urged market men and women to always observe COVID-19  protocols. “This is by regularly using their nose mask, washing of hands and use of hand sanitiser, maintaining of social distance, among others,’’  he said. Mr Rahman Abiola, Chairman, Iwo East LCDA, and his counterpart in Olaoluwa South LCDA, Mr Adebiyi Adedayo, equally appealed to the people not to be unserious with the issue of COVID-19. Mr Olajire Oyebode, the Osun State Chairman of the Road Transport Employers Association of Nigeria (RTEAN), said that his members would continue to observe COVID-19  protocols at motor parks. Vanguard News Nigeria Gov. Adegboyega Oyetola of Osun has urged Nigerians to embrace love, tolerance, generosity and peaceful co-existence, which Jesus Christ stood for, as they celebrate Christmas. Oyetola, in a Christmas message issued on Thursday in Osogbo, said the celebration offered Nigerians the opportunity to reflect on God’s love and compassion for… December 24, 2020 In "News" Shina Abubakar - Osogbo Wife of Osun State Governor, Mrs Kafayat Oyetola on Saturday admonished parents and guardians in the state to protect their children adequately from COVID-19 as the country the second wave of the pandemic hit the country. Oyetola speaking during the year 2020 end of the year… December 20, 2020 In "News" The Governor of Osun State, Gboyega Oyetola, on Thursday announced the mandatory use of face mask in public places by residents as from April 24 as part of measures to curb the spread of Coronavirus in the state. Oyetola, in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Ismail Omipidan, on… April 23, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"