KOGI state government has refuted the reports that the government secondary School Iluke Bunu was burnt by Fulani herdsmen, stressing that on the contrary, the school got burnt as a result of indiscriminate bush burning. The state government stated this on Friday in a statement signed by the state Commissioner for Information and Communication, Mr Kingsley Fanwo titles, “PRELIMINARY REPORTS ON THE BURNING OF GOVERNMENT SECONDARY SCHOOL, ILUKE BUNU.” The statement, however, said the state government will still continue their investigation, frowned at the hasty conclusion of alluding the situation to a group of people. “The unfortunate burning of Government Secondary School, Iluke Bunu is a thing of concern to the Kogi State Government. “The State Government frowns at the hasty conclusion that a part of the school was burnt by Fulani herdsmen. Such unconfirmed conclusion could spark tension in the state. “Our preliminary findings showed that the inferno was as a result of indiscriminate bush burning by unknown persons. “As we continue to investigate the cause of the inferno, we sue for caution in making statements that can undermine the peaceful coexistence of the people of Kogi State and other ethnic groups in the State. “Kogi State enjoys peaceful coexistence with the Fulani, Bassa, Nupe and other communities living or doing businesses in the State. “The Ministry of Education, Science and Technology and the Chairman of Kabba/Bunu LGA, as well as the State Security Adviser, have been charged to unravel the mystery behind the inferno as those responsible, no matter their tribe or position will be made to face the full wrath of the law. “Education remains number one in our thematic areas. As a Government, we will resist any form of attack on facilities where we are building the generation-next Kogites that we expect to be sound academically and believe in the unity of our dear nation. “We sympathise with the Iluke community and all those affected directly and indirectly by the inferno. “The Executive Governor of Kogi State has directed for the immediate rehabilitation of the school to ensure academic activities are not affected. He has also directed the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology to immediately put temporary measures in place to ensure students at the school continue with their education unhindered. “The people of Kogi State should continue to trust the Government to protect them against any form of violence and other crimes.” Vanguard News Nigeria Suspected herdsmen on Wednesday afternoon invaded Government Secondary School Iluke in Kabba Bunu local government council and allegedly burnt down the school. Vanguard gathered the school was invaded at about 3 pm when students had closed from school. According to a source, it was discovered that blocks of classrooms were… February 4, 2021 In "News" *As gunmen killed timber contractor at girlfriend's house By Boluwaji Obahopo Suspected herdsmen, on Wednesday afternoon, invaded Government Secondary School, Iluke, Kabba Bunu Local Government Area of Kogi state and burnt down the school. Also, a timber contractor based in Ayangba in Kogi State, Mr. Ogwu Salihu, has been reported… February 4, 2021 In "News" …Say criminal elements shouln’t be used to tar any ethnic group …Urge leaders at all levels to stop inflammatory remarks capable of worsening insecurity …El-Rufai condemns eviction of herders, says Nigerians can live wherever they want …Suspected herdsmen set school ablaze in Kogi By Marie-Therese Lalong, Boluwaji Obahopo & Hassan… February 5, 2021 In "News"