President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, has said late Alhaji Jakande lived a long and inspirational life that found fulfillment in the service of humanity. Lawan in a condolence message noted that Jakande made sterling contributions to the development of journalism In Nigeria before replicating his indelible footprints on the political and economic development of Nigeria with his landmark achievements as the first elected governor of Lagos State. “His feats and carriage as the governor made Alhaji Lateef Jakande a permanent face of progressive politics whose primary concern is the welfare and well-being of the people. “Throughout his tenure as governor, he faithfully implemented the four cardinal programmes of his party, the defunct Unity Party of Nigeria. “His numerous legacies continue to be appreciated, particularly in the education, health and housing sectors of Lagos State,” Lawan says. “Alhaj Jakande took his Midas touch to the Federal level when he served briefly as the Minister of Works where he left his marks especially on the landscape of Abuja,” he stated. The Senate President commiserated with the family, Lagos residents, friends, and associates of the legend over his departure. Lawan prayed Allah to forgive his sins and accept his soul into Aljannat Firdaus. Vanguard News Nigeria …Nigeria has lost one of its exemplary political leaders and administrators, Lawan …Jakande is a Personification of True Greatness,  Omo- Agege By Henry Umoru PRESIDENT the Senate, Senator Ahmad Lawan, said Thursday that with the death of Second Republic Governor of Lagos State, Alhaji Lateef Kayode Jakande, Nigeria has lost… February 11, 2021 In "News" The Governor of Ekiti State, Dr Kayode Fayemi, has expressed his condolences on the death of the first elected Governor of Lagos State, Alhaji Lateef Kayode Jakande, who passed on Thursday, aged 91. The Governor in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Yinka Oyebode, described Alhaji Jakande as a… February 11, 2021 In "News" By Olasunkanmi Akoni Sanwo-Olu, in a condolence message signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Gboyega Akosile, said the late Jakande will remain one of the best public office holders in the political history of Nigeria based on how he transformed Lagos State and Nigeria during his tenure as Minister… February 11, 2021 In "News"