Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu has directed the state Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu to institute an investigation into the harassment of some protesters who were arrested during last Saturday botched protest at the Lekki Tollgate. Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Mr Gbenga Omotoso, disclosed this on Monday, at a media parley, organised by Management of Lekki Concession Company, LCC, to clear the air on some controversial reports in the media, held in Ikeja GRA, Lagos. The botched protest was being organised by some aggrieved groups to protest the order by a judicial panel of inquiry into the #EndSARS protest of October 20, 2020, and other alleged police brutality in the state. While speaking with newsmen on the alleged harassment of some protesters on Saturday, Omotosho said the Governor has directed CP to begin an investigation into the molestation of some protesters with a view to prosecute and punish any officer found culpable. According to the commissioner, the incident has embarrassed the state government and would not be condoned. Omotosho recalled that the state governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu was physically backing the #EndSARS protest and went to Abuja to deliver the protesters demands to Mr president Speaking against the quantum of money lost during the protests the LCC boss Mr Yomi Omomuwasan said that the firm has lost a rough estimate of over N2.5 billion to the damages experienced between October 20, 2021, to February 13, 2021. While lamenting the loss, Omomuwasan said the company has obligations to be met, hence, needed to get back to work. Details later… Vanguard News Nigeria By Adeniyi Femi It is often said that the hallmark of maturity in any leader is the ability to take responsibility for whatever wrong that is perceived by the people. This much was gracefully demonstrated by Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu in his handling of the EndSARS protests fall-out within Lagos State.… November 30, 2020 In "Viewpoint" By Yinka Ajayi The October 20, 2020 Lekki Toll Gate incident cannot be forgotten in a hurry. It was an event which later led to wanton destruction of lives and property in Lagos and other states across the federation. The true account of what really happened at the Lekki Toll… November 22, 2020 In "News" …Warns security agents ready for any eventuality …Don’t cause trouble, LASG warns protesters …No protest’ll hold at Lekki tomorrow, Lagos CP vows …No going back, organisers declare …Reconsider on protests, LCC begs protesters By Soni Daniel, Northern Region Editor, Olasunkanmi Akoni & Juliet Umeh The Federal and Lagos State governments… February 12, 2021 In "News"