For the fourth day running, academic activities in Edo State primary schools remained paralysed as a result of the ongoing strike by the state’s chapter of the Nigerian Union of Teachers (NUT). They continued the strike despite a restraining order granted by the Benin division of the National Industrial Court, NIC last Monday. However, apparently, to reduce the impact of the strike, the state government has deployed officials of the State Universal Basic Education Board, SUBEB, to some of the primary schools to teach pupils who showed up, just as it asked the Public Works Volunteers, PUWOV, to provide security to the SUBEB officials. At Ugbhioko Primary School, off Ekheuan Road, it was discovered that all the pupils who showed up were distributed into three different classes and a SUBEB official was seen handling pupils in primary five and six classes.
The official who identified himself as Peter According to him, he was deployed to the primary school “as a matter of necessity because the pupils are willing to learn but the teachers are not available. “Yesterday (Wednesday), a teacher from the Federal Teachers Service, FTC, was around to teach the pupils. I am not a trained teacher. I am a civil servant with SUBEB”, he disclosed. One of the pupils, who gave his name as Idemudia John, was seen sleeping on a plank outside the classroom because he was ill but the SUBEB official explained that he had asked all the pupils to get the telephone numbers of their parents written on the notebook so that any of the parents could be contacted in case of any emergency. At the entrance of the school, it was observed that there was no handwashing facility provided in line with the COVID-19 protocols announced by Governor Godwin Obaseki, who while shifting the resumption of academic activities across the state to February 1 said that all schools must make available handwashing facilities and hand sanitiser when the schools resumed. An official of PUWOV, who did not disclose his name, said that they (PUWOV) had asked the SUBEB officials to make available water, soap and hand sanitiser. Vanguard News Nigeria By Ozioruva Aliu PRIMARY school teachers in Edo state Monday defied the state government directive to resume schools today as they stayed away on the directive of state chapter of Nigerian Union of Teachers (NUT). A visit to some public primary schools across the state showed that there were no… February 1, 2021 In "Education" Teachers and pupils in public primary schools in Edo State are in for a new learning experience, as the Edo Basic Education Sector Transformation (Edo BEST) programme kicks off with the State Basic Education Board (SUBEB) receiving caches of textbooks for distribution in schools in Edo State. April 12, 2018 In "News" PRIMARY School teachers under the aegis Nigerian Union of Teachers and the Edo state government are at loggerheads over alleged nonpayment of allowances and alleged highhandedness of the leadership of the State Universal Basic Education (SUBEB) which has led to the NUT issuing a 21-day ultimatum to the state government… December 9, 2020 In "News"