  “We want nullification of the election. We do not want (Museveni) participating in any future election,” said Medard Sseggona, one of Wine’s lawyers, at the Kampala courthouse where he filed the petition for the runner-up in the January 14 presidential election. Museveni, a 76-year-old former rebel leader who has ruled since 1986, won a sixth term in office with 58.6 percent of the vote. Wine, a 38-year-old singer-turned-MP, came a distant second with 34.8 percent and slammed the vote as a sham. Under the constitution Wine, whose real name is Robert Kyagulanyi, had 15 days from the declaration of results by the electoral commission to challenge the outcome. The Supreme Court must now rule on the petition within 45 days. Losing candidates have sought unsuccessfully in the past to overturn Museveni’s wins in court. The veteran leader has won every election since 1996, almost all marred by allegations of irregularities. Wine says he has extensive evidence of vote rigging, including ballot box stuffing, voter intimidation and the manipulation of results at individual polling stations. Museveni declared the election the cleanest in Uganda’s post-independence history. The run-up to the vote was marred by the worst pre-election bloodshed in years, and a sustained crackdown by government critics and Museveni’s rivals. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria Ugandan opposition leader Bobi Wine, who is under de facto house arrest by the military, has filed an arbitrary detention complaint to the United Nations (UN). “Nigerian human rights lawyer Femi Falana has filed this complaint on my behalf to the UN Working Group on Arbitrary Arrest. “We are challenging… January 20, 2021 In "News" Ugandan soldiers stood down their positions around the residence of opposition leader Bobi Wine on Tuesday, a day after a court-ordered an end to the confinement of the presidential runner-up. Wine, a popstar-turned-MP whose real name is Robert Kyagulanyi, had been under de-facto house arrest at his home outside the… January 26, 2021 In "Foreign" Across opposition strongholds in Uganda's capital, the reaction to President Yoweri Museveni's contested re-election has been muted, with his rival's supporters too fearful -- or dispirited -- to take to the streets. With their leader under house arrest, and soldiers still out in force, backers of presidential runner-up Bobi Wine… January 22, 2021 In "Foreign"