Non-profit organization  Afro-Tech Girls has said that provision of soft skill capacity building could help girls and women appreciate Information and Communications based careers. The group made the statement at a conference it held to commemorate the 2021 International Day of Women and Girls in Science themed ‘Women Scientists at the forefront of the fight against COVID-19.’ Afro-Tech Girls is focused on encouraging and empowering females in the areas of Science, Technology, Engineering and Maths (STEM). The event which was hosted in partnership with IHS Nigeria, a subsidiary of IHS Towers, saw female speakers from the medical, science and technology sectors interact with over 100 participants in attendance online and a further 100 girls from public secondary schools watching from their classrooms. The event was also used as a soft launch of a longer-term partnership between Afro-Tech Girls and IHS Nigeria. Co-founder, Afro-Tech Girls, Adeola Shasanya said the theme of the event, reinforced present challenges associated with the current pandemic and highlighted how women in science are currently playing a critical role to address these challenges. Shasanya said that confidence and soft skills needed to be improved to drive more interests among the young females looking to build careers in STEM She said: “We are grateful for organisations like IHS Nigeria that have committed to improve STEM outcomes in Nigeria particularly within young females. We are confident that their support will go a long way to ensure these females are equipped with the skills required to compete and contribute immensely in STEM-related careers.” Some of the speakers at the event included   – Dr. Ngozi Onyia, MD, Paelon Memorial Hospital;   Ms. Cima Sholotan, Director of Sustainability & Corporate Communications, IHS Nigeria; Dr. Yetunde Adewunmi, Microbiologist, Wadsworth Center, New York State Department of Health; Dr. Mobola Oyefule, Medical Doctor, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota; Dr. Kemi Ezenwanne, Medical Doctor, Armoured Shield Medical Centre;   Ms. Jessica Uwoghiren, Data Analytics Expert; and Ms. Gloria Okereke, Team Lead, Network Operating Centre, IHS Nigeria. Afro-Tech Girls, a non-profit organization focused on encouraging and empowering females in the areas of Science, Technology, Engineering and Maths (STEM), recently hosted a conference, in partnership with IHS Nigeria, to commemorate   the International Day of Women and Girls in Science themed ‘Women Scientists at the forefront of the fight… February 16, 2021 In "News" Gear up for fun this summer because African Girls in Science and Technology Initiative (Afro-Tech Girls)  is  hosting her inaugural Science, Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM) summer camp! This camp is in conjunction with Dhack Institute and Energy Academy Limited as training partners. Applications are now open for all Senior Secondary School Girls across Nigeria, academically talented in… July 24, 2017 In "News" AS part of its Girls Power Tech Global Mentoring Initiative, celebrated in support of the annual United Nations’ International Girls in ICT Day, employees at Cisco offices worldwide spent the day with girls aged 13-18, mentoring them on the importance of education and choosing career paths in STEM (Science, Technology,… May 18, 2017 In "Education"