Lagos State Government on Wednesday, announced plans to shut totally, the Oworonshoki bound lane of the Third Mainland Bridge from vehicular movement by midnight on Saturday February, 6, 2021 till 7pm on Sunday February 7, 2021 to remove the last expansion joint on the Oworonshoki bound lane. In a statement by the state Commissioner for Transportation, Dr. Fredric Oladeinde, explained that the closure was vital to enable the contractor move their equipment to the Oworonshoki bound lane within the given period without any interruptions that could be caused by vehicular movement on the bridge. Oladeinde, tated that the rehabilitation process is being done assiduously to ensure set deadlines are met. “Motorists from Ogudu, Alapere and Gbagada are advised to use Ikorodu Road, Jibowu and Yaba as alternative routes, while Iyana Oworosoki bound traffic from the Lagos Island, Iddo, Oyingbo, Adekunle and Yaba should use Herbert Macaulay Way, Jibowu and Ikorodu road as alternative routes, “ Oladeinde urged. He assured that traffic management personnel would be deployed along the affected routes to minimize and address any traffic impediments during the closure. “The State Government hereby appeals to residents to cooperate with the State Government as the ongoing repair works on the bridge is for the safety of all and sundry. Governor Babajide Sanwo Olu led administration will not relent in ensuring safety on Lagos roads,” the commissioner assured. Vanguard News NIgeria The Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) on Friday advised motorists not to panic over the partial closure of the Third Mainland Bridge for repairs. The FRSC Sector Commander in Lagos State, Mr Olusegun Ogungbemide, told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Lagos that efforts were been made to make… July 25, 2020 In "News" The Federal Controller of Works Lagos, Mr Olukayode Popoola on Tuesday announced a 72-hour total closure of the Third Mainland Bridge to cast concrete on thee expansion joints. Popoola told the Newsmen  in Lagos that the shutdown will take effect from midnight on Saturday to midnight on Tuesday. He added… December 22, 2020 In "News" …Partially closes Lagos-Ibadan expressway for 48 hrs Federal Controller of Works, Lagos, Mr Olukayode Popoola, yesterday,  announced a 72-hour total closure of the Third Mainland Bridge to cast concrete on three expansion joints from Saturday to midnight on Tuesday. Popoola, who spoke to  NAN in Lagos, added that construction works… December 23, 2020 In "News"