Liberia said Wednesday it had finally paid up its late annual membership fee to the African Union, months after being downgraded to observer status. After five months of suspension, Monrovia “has fulfilled its financial obligations to the pan-African body” and “is ready to participate” in an online summit this weekend, Foreign Minister Dee-Maxwel Kemayah said in a statement. Liberia lost its voting rights in September for failing to pay its $1.6 million annual contribution to the AU. “Settling our financial obligations signals that Liberia takes its role and responsibilities seriously as a member in the international system,” Kemayah said. Still suffering the after-effects of a 1989-2003 civil war in which 250,000 people died and an Ebola outbreak in 2014-16, Liberia now faces inflation and a weakening currency. President and former football star George Weah has struggled to fulfil his election promises to reduce poverty and fight corruption, made before he took office three years ago. He blames the lack of progress on the difficult situation he inherited from predecessors. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria Liberian President George Weah has declared rape a national emergency and has ordered new measures to tackle the problem after a recent spike of cases in the poor West African state. The moves comes after thousands of Liberians protested rising incidents of rape in the capital Monrovia last month, in… September 12, 2020 In "Foreign" To the cheers of a crowd fired by his promise to bring them jobs and prosperity, former football star George Weah was sworn in as president of Liberia on Monday, completing the country's first transition between democratically-elected leaders since 1944. January 22, 2018 In "News" LIBERIA, the African country with the motto: THE LOVE OF LIBERTY BROUGHT US HERE, has seen quite bloody successful and attempted coups, and survived two barbaric civil wars. However, one  politician has been  part of  its troubled history for the past 46 years. January 19, 2018 In "News"