THE Nigeria Labour Congress, NLC, Wednesday morning, led many workers across government agencies to picket the Corporate Affairs Commission, CAC, over alleged unfriendly policies against workers of the commission. The picketing being carried out at the headquarters of the commission is ongoing. The national leadership of NLC, led by its President, Comrade Ayuba Waba, led executive and members of unions to the action intended to change certain policies considered to be against the interest of workers of the organization. The protest which started as early as 8:00 am, saw the premises of the Commission blocked, preventing workers from gaining entry into the building. Speaking at the protest ground, Waba alleged that the Commission’s Registrar General, Garba Abubakar stalled staff promotion and brought in environmental experts to fumigate the agency for N35million in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, including contracting someone to paint the Zone 5 annexe office for N25million. Among other allegations raised by NLC was that the Registrar transferred married women who are staff out of the Commission. As at the time of filing this brief report, vehicular movement was stalled, and workers that were to resume as early as 8:00 am were stranded outside the building. Details coming… Vanguard News Nigeria Abuja—Senior Staff Association of Statutory Corporations and Government Owned Companies, SSASCGOC, an affiliate of the Trade Union Congress of Nigeria, TUC, has invited the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, to investigate alleged fraud in Corporate Affairs Commission, CAC; housing scheme. February 24, 2021 In "News" Workers on Wednesday shut down Kaduna to protest the sack of 21, 000 primary school teachers by the Kaduna State Government. November 8, 2017 In "News" NIGERIA Labour Congress, NLC, yesterday, made good its threat to shut down operations of Union Bank of Nigeria, UBN, Plc, as the bank’s offices across the country were paralysed by officials of NLC and their civil society allies, over the management of the bank’s withdrawal of recognition to its unit… February 15, 2011 In "News"