Former Governor of Ekiti State, Ayodele Fayose has called for the immediate release of the sacked Special Adviser on Media to Governor Umar Ganduje of Kano State, Tanko Salihu Yakasai, describing his arrest as “another sad commentary on how low this APC government of President Muhammadu Buhari has gone.” Fayose, who also commended Salihu Yakasai for being courageous enough to speak truth to power, said “This singular action of his has made him the latest hero of our democracy, and in turn confirmed that there is hope for a united Nigeria.” In a series of tweets on Saturday, Fayose said it was sad that Nigerians can not criticize the same President Buhari, who did not only speak against his predecessors but also led protests. He said “I join all well-meaning Nigerians to demand the immediate release of Salihu Yakasai. He did not commit any offence to warrant being taken into custody. “That he was arrested like a common criminal by the DSS just because he spoke his mind against a President that is more like the servant of the people is another sad commentary on how low this APC govt of Buhari has gone. “Sad that under this govt, our security men are only efficient in persecuting whoever speaks against the President. Sad too that Nigerians can’t criticize the same President who did not only speak against his predecessors but also led protests.” Commending Salihu Yakasai, Fayose said; “I commend the courage of Salihu Yakasai, the sacked Gov Ganduje’s Aide for being able to speak truth to power. “This singular action of his has made him the latest hero of our democracy, and in turn confirmed that there is hope for a united Nigeria. “Nothing can be more honourable than what he has done by standing tall amidst darkness and selfishness of leadership. “His sack is the beginning of his rise politically. I sincerely congratulate him and indeed the ordinary Nigerians seeking good governance and leadership. On #BuhariMustResign we stand.” Vanguard News Nigeria Governor Ayodele Fayose of Ekiti State, on Wednesday, accused President Muhammadu Buhari of using an equally corrupt Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to stamp out corruption in Nigeria, insisting that the President must start the corruption fight from his party and immediate aides since charity begins from home. July 6, 2016 In "News" By Nwafor Sunday The Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project, SERAP, has condemned the alleged arrest of Salihu Tanko Yakasai, ex-aide to the Kano state governor, Abdullahi Umar Ganduje. Salihu on Friday criticized President Muhammadu Buhari, and other Nigerian governors over the spate of killings, abductions, rape and other insecurity issues… February 27, 2021 In "News" The Ekiti State Governor, Mr Ayodele Fayose has again condemned the federal government over its nonchalant attitude towards ending the fuel scarcity being experienced across the country, calling for immediate resignation of President Muhammadu Buhari as the minister of petroleum. December 22, 2017 In "News"