Mexican President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador announced Thursday that he has tested negative for Covid-19, nearly two weeks after being diagnosed with the virus. Lopez Obrador, who refused for months to wear a mask or abandon his cross-country tours, was said to have suffered mild symptoms. “I took an antigen test this morning and it came out negative,” said the 67-year-old president, who has a history of heart problems and hypertension, in a video on social media. Lopez Obrador underwent further testing, but the results were not yet available, authorities told a press conference. “Of course I still have to wait a few more days, but I am already in good health. I am recovering well from Covid,” the president said. The left-wing populist, who had experienced brief episodes of low-grade fever and a slight headache, announced his illness on January 24. Mexico has officially registered around 1.9 million coronavirus cases and more than 161,200 deaths, one of the world’s highest fatality tolls. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria Mexican President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador announced Sunday that he was infected with the coronavirus, but said his symptoms were mild. "I regret to inform you that I am infected with Covid-19. The symptoms are mild but I am already undergoing medical treatment," the 67-year-old said in a message on… January 25, 2021 In "Coronavirus Updates" Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau has turned down President Trump’s invitation to meet this week alongside Mexican President Andrés Manuel López Obrador in celebration of their new trade deal. Citing scheduling concerns, a spokesman for Trudeau announced Monday that the Canadian leader would be skipping the White House gathering so… July 7, 2020 In "News" Mexican President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador has said that the need to always wear a face mask in public has not been scientifically proven. Lopez Obrador’ comment is coming, one day after the country marked a new record in daily coronavirus cases. He said doctors had told him that “I… July 25, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"