Yobe state Governor and Chairman, APC Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee, Gov. Mai Mala Buni, has restated the commitment of the party to reconciling aggrieved members through the registration and revalidation of its membership. Director-General, Press and Media Affairs to the Governor, Mamman Mohammed said the party has through the caretaker committee succeeded in building new confidence among its members and reassuring them of new hope in the party. “Our focus is to strengthen the party through a bottom-up approach and to carry everyone on board, while those aggrieved have happily rejoined APC just as new ones have joined the party. “The Caretaker Committee has reconciled many aggrieved members and factions across the country including the Zamfara state factions among others and bringing in prominent politicians into APC including Mr David Umahi the serving governor of Ebonyi state with more coming”, Buni stated. The governor dismissed claims that APC was wooing former President Goodluck Jonathan to contest the 2023 presidency on its platform saying 2023 is not on its agenda for now. “It is diversionary to start discussing 2023 elections now. We have a sitting president, Muhammadu Buhari, who is less than two years in the office of his second term, we are concentrating on the success of his administration.” He explained that the visit by some governors to former president Jonathan “was solely to felicitate with him on his birthday anniversary, no more, no less and this was done to honour him as a former leader after all, in spite of the political differences, President Buhari had on some occasions delegated him on regional assignments.” The Chairman of the caretaker Committee, also said the membership registration and revalidation exercise was a constitutional provision which is part of the strategic measures taken by the committee to give existing and new members a sense of belonging. “Since the initial exercise in 2014, the party has not registered new members nor update the personal information of our existing members as provided for by the constitution.” “The registration exercise gives our new members a sense of belonging and the existing members will update their information while those who left the party will have their names removed from the party register,” he said. Governor Buni said the registration and revalidation exercise would assist the party to generate a valid, accurate and up to date data on party membership to enhance and support its planning process. Vanguard News Nigeria By Omeiza Ajayi The Forum of non-National Working Committee elected officials of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has backed the decision of the Mai Mala Buni-led Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee CECPC to embark on membership registration and revalidation, pledging to mobilise Nigerians to participate in the exercise. The… December 14, 2020 In "News" ABUJA-A support group of the ruling All Progressives Congress, APC,operating under the aegis of Concerned All Progressives Congress Members,Monday,handed down a 14-day ultimatum to the party's caretaker committee to set up a convention committee or risk mass protest against it by members. October 12, 2020 In "News" By Omeiza Ajayi, Abuja Months after it lost its Mojo, the ruling All Progressives Congress APC seems to be on the path of self-rediscovery following the determination of the Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee CECPC to heal all wounds and unite the various tendencies in the fold. The Governor Mai Mala… November 15, 2020 In "News"