The 14th edition of the Headies awards held yesterday February 21, 2021 and due to COVID-19 restrictions, the show was virtual, with a huge part  of it pre-recorded. The live event, featuring nominees held at Eko Hotels and Suites, Victoria Island, Lagos with electrifying performances from Chike, Fireboy, Joeboy and Laycon. Red carpet began at 5pm while the main event commenced at about 9:00pm. Nigerian musician, Fireboy led the pack of winners with five awards including Album of The Year, while Wizkid won two awards including Artist of The Year. Celebrities in attendance include Wizkid, 2Baba, Sound Sultan, Fireboy, Idia Aisien, AY,  iLLBliss, Bad Boy Timz, Omah Lay, Mayorkun among others. The show which celebrates outstanding achievements in the Nigerian music industry was hosted by comedian, Bovi and media personality, Nancy Isime and saw winners in new categories; Songwriter of The Year and Best Alternative Album. See list of winners below; Best R&B Single Tattoo – Fireboy DML  Best Recording of The Year Brymo  Best Music Video of The Year 1 Milli – Davido By Director K  Album of the Year Apollo – Fireboy  Producer of The Year Pheelz – Billionaire by Teni  Best Vocal Performance (Female) Niniola – Addicted  Best Vocal Performance (Male) Praiz – Under The Sky  Best Street Hop Artiste Mayorkun – Geng  Rookie of The Year Bad Boy Tims – MJ  Best Pop Single Nobody – DJ Neptune feat Joe Boy and Mr Eazi  Best Collabo Ladipoe and Simi – Know you  Best Alternative song Moelogo – I wonder  Best Rap Single Falz – Bop Daddy feat. MS Banks  Best R&B Album Fireboy DML – Tears, laughter and goosebumps  Best Alternative Album Roots – The Cavemen  Next Rated Omah -Lay  Viewers Choice Award Wizkid  Songwriter of the Year Simi – Duduke  Best Pop Album Fireboy – Apollo  Lyricist on The Roll Ilbliss Goretti – Country  African Artiste Recognition Award Master KG  Headies Revelation Fireboy DML  Best Rap Album God’s Engineering – AQ  Headies Hall of Fame  King Sunny Ade  Special Recognition  Eedris Abdulkareem Vanguard News Nigeria Full Nominees & Categories List HERE. Artiste Of The Year Winner: Burna Boy  Nominees: Burna Boy Wizkid Davido Tiwa Savage Falz Song Of The Year Winner: ‘Ye’ – Burna Boy  Nominees:  ‘Ye’ – Burna Boy ‘Dumebi’ – Rema ‘Wetin We Gain’ – Victor AD ‘Fake Love’ – Starboy ft Duncan… October 19, 2019 In "Entertainment" The 13th edition of the headies award is scheduled to hold today, 19th of October 2019. Burna Boy clinched the spot for the most-nominated artist. In one of the categories, Burna Boy's Album 'Outside' will be competing with three other popular artistes for the "Album of the Year" award. All… October 19, 2019 In "Entertainment" 2019 was a good year for Nigerian music, both locally and internationally. Some awards were won and some were lost but all in all it was a fabulous year for Nigeria. Leading Nigerian artistes like Wizkid, Davido, Burna Boy, Tiwa Savage, Yemi Alade, Kizz Daniel and many others didn't disappoint… January 4, 2020 In "Entertainment"