THE Transmission Company of Nigeria, TCN, Wednesday, recorded a partial system collapse, which affected electricity supply to Lagos and other cities in the nation. An investigation by Vanguard indicated that the partial system collapse, attributed to an equipment-related problem, disrupted economic and other activities for several hours. However, in a telephone interview with Vanguard, the TCN spokesperson, Ndidi Mbah, said the partial system collapse was restored, while many consumers have started to get supply. Nevertheless, the sector has recorded several system collapses in recent times because of many problems, including equipment failure in Nigeria. In a statement obtained by Vanguard, TCN had stated: “The Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN) regrets to inform electricity consumers nationwide that at 11:25am today, the nation’s electricity grid experienced multiple trippings, which led to the collapse of the system. “TCN has since commenced grid restoration; power has been successfully restored to every part of the country, except Calabar, Ugwuaji, Markurdi, Jos, Gombe, Yola and Maidugiri axes. Effort is however ongoing to ensure full restoration nationwide.” It had also added: “We regret the inconvenience this has caused electricity consumers. Investigations would be conducted to establish the immediate and remote cause(s) of the multiple trippings as soon as the grid is fully restored – considering that the grid had been relatively stable in the last couple of months.” Vanguard News Nigeria By Udeme Akpan The activities of households and businesses were stalled in Lagos, Kaduna, and other towns, yesterday, following a major system collapse, which culminated in a nationwide blackout. An investigation by Vanguard showed that the households and various businesses resorted to the generation of their independent power at a… November 29, 2020 In "Business" THE nation was yesterday thrown into darkness as the Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN)  suffered the first major system collapse, resulting from poor and obsolete infrastructure. January 17, 2020 In "Business" The nation’s epileptic power situation is set to worsen as Transmission Company of Nigeria, TCN, recorded six systems collapses in January 2018. February 22, 2018 In "Energy"