Chairman of the South West Governors Forum, Rotimi Akeredolu, has weekend described the statement credited to his Bauchi State counterpart, Bala Mohammed, that Nigerians don’t need his permission to live in forests reserve as “provoking and insensitive.  However, reacting to Akeredolu directive, the Bauchi governor fired back by saying that the chairman of the south west governors forum does not have the right to issue a vacation notice to herders in the state. According to Mohammed “Land is in the hands of the state and federal governments in trust but Nigerians don’t need the permission of governors or the federal government to settle everywhere. He added that “You don’t need the permission of the governor of Bauchi or the governor of Ondo to be in the forests of Ondo if you choose to live in the forests because under Section 41 of the constitution, you are free to settle anywhere,” Reacting to Mohammed through his Special Assistant to the Governor (New Media) Olabode Richard Olatunde, governor Akeredolu called on Nigerians to disregard Mohammed’s comments. “Very provoking and insensitive as the statement appears, we can only err on the side of caution by advising Governor Bala Mohammed not set Nigeria on fire by his thoughts that are highly destructive and undermining national cohesion.” “Nigerians should ignore him and rather focus on those issues that can bring about peace and engender unity.”  By Dayo Johnson - Akure South West Governors have challenged President Muhammed Buhari to come out and let Nigerians know that he does not support criminality. The chairman of the South West Governors Forum, Rotimi Akeredolu said this in an interview on Channels Television. Akeredolu declared that "What we expect… February 16, 2021 In "News" Chairman of the South West Governors Forum, Rotimi Akeredolu has lambasted the Bauch state governor, Bala Mohammed, for justifying Fulani herdsmen carrying guns. February 13, 2021 In "News" Not fit for public office Statement despicable, recommended for the dust bin of careless talks Dayo Johnson - Akure Chairman of the South West Governors Forum, Rotimi Akeredolu has lambasted the Bauch state governor, Bala Mohammed, for justifying Fulani herdsmen carrying guns. Akeredolu described his counterpart governor as an anarchist,… February 13, 2021 In "News"