In honour of Akwa Ibom’s first indigenous Military Governor, Air Commodore Idongesit Nkanga, and an appreciation for his positive contribution to the growth of the Nigerian Air Force, NAF, Akwa Ibom State, the Niger Delta and Nigeria at large, the Akwa Ibom State Executive Council has resolved to name the new Ring Road 3 dual carriageway after the former Commander of the Presidential Air Fleet and Chairman of PANDEF. Speaking at a special valedictory session held in honour of the departed former Governor at the Exco Chambers Government House, Uyo Friday, Governor Emmanuel described the late Military Governor as a close friend, confidante and brother, describing the late Nkanga as someone who remained a reference point for patriotism and statesmanship, submitting that his departure has left a vacuum difficult to be filled. Governor Emmanuel described Nkanga as a reference point for patriotism, statesmanship and forthrightness. In his words, “Air Commodore Idongesit Nkanga, Rtd, was a gentleman, an officer, a nationalist, a good Christian, my political Director-General, my personal friend, leader of Ibibio nation goodnight”. Bemoaning his sudden passage, the Governor said Nkanga was a coordinating force in Akwa Ibom State and the entire South-South region. “Words will fail me to describe how we grieved when we lost this Idongesit of our time, it took time for the void and disbelief to be filled with the acknowledgement that our icon now belongs to the ages and not with us anymore. “That was when we realized how much he meant to us, how much we identified with him, how much he had become part of the Akwa Ibom dream, we feel a collective sense of deprivation because he still had a lot to contribute”, he stated. The ceremony which was solemn, sober and mournful, featured tributes from the Deputy Governor, Mr Moses Ekpo, Speaker, Akwa Ibom State House of Assembly, Rt.(Hon) Aniekan Bassey, Senator Helen Esuene as well as former State Chief Judge, Rtd.Justice Idongesit Ntem-Isua and Chief Obot Etukafia who both had served as commissioners when the late Nkanga was Military Governor. The occasion climaxed with the adorning of the casket of the late Military Governor with the national and state flags and observation of a minute of silence in honour of the departed hero and patriot. Vanguard News Nigeria By Imoh Etimudo What will you remember Otuekong Idongesit Nkanga for? Many will go for the State Secretariat which is named after him while others will look at his numerous contributions to the development of Akwa Ibom State during and after his administration. Whatever divide one belongs to, the departed… February 4, 2021 In "Viewpoint" The Government of Akwa Ibom has declared a seven-day period of mourning effective from Dec. 26, over the death of Otuekong Idongesit Nkanga, a former military administrator of the state, who died on Dec. 24. This was contained in a statement signed by the Secretary to the State Government, Dr… December 26, 2020 In "News" A former military administrator and prominent elder in Akwa Ibom State, Air- Commodore Idongesit Nkanga, has said that the reason the Ibibio were organising a reception for Governor Udom Emmanuel was to express their feelings about his performance after two years in office. July 6, 2017 In "News"