Third son of the late first civilian Governor of Lagos State, Alhaji Lateef Jakande, Seyi yesterday, narrated his moment of his late dad. Seyi, while granting an interview with newsmen at their Ilupeju resident, said his father died as a progressive politician, and also revalidated his membership with All Progressives Congress, APC in the ongoing registration and validation exercise, before he died. He said the former governor died in his sleep on Thursday, around 11: am at his residence. According to him, his father lived a fulfilled life and had left a big vacuum in society due to his kindness, philanthropic lifestyle and service to humanity. “He revalidated his APC membership on Wednesday, and this morning, he had his breakfast and slept, but around 11: am, his aid observed that he was no longer breathing so, he called for medical personnel to examine him. “However, medical personnel later confirmed that he was no more.” One of the daughters, Ganiyat Bola Jakande, said his father death was a great loss and he will forever be missed for his impact and contributions to the society, most especially, Lagos State. She stated: “My father was very caring, loving father and at the same time he was a disciplinarian, he was no-nonsense person, and his love for less privileged people can not be compared to none.” One of the sisters of the deceased, Mrs Omololu Osinuga, described his late brother as a loving and caring person who was companionate in serving humanity. Osinuga who came in from America last week Friday to see his late brother, also said that her last moment with him will linger forever. Vanguard News Nigeria The son of late Alhaji Lateef Jakande, Seyi Jakande, has urged present leaders to emulate his late father’s humanitarian endowments to society, which he exhibited when he was active in service as the governor of Lagos State. February 11, 2021 In "Politics" The first civilian governor of Lagos State, Alhaji Lateef Jakande, has blessed the candidacy of the All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship candidate in the state, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, praying for his success in the general elections. December 24, 2018 In "News" ON Saturday, April 23, news filtered in that former deputy Governor of Lagos State, Alhaji Rafiu Bakare Adeyefa Jafojo had passed on. Though, Jafojo had withdrawn from the public eye owing to his old age, his death came as a rude shock to many political bigwigs cutting across the political… April 28, 2016 In "Politics"