Air platforms have conducted armed reconnaissance over Kaduna forests and killed scores of bandits. The reconnaissance covered Sabon Birnin, Rikau, Kaya, Kerawa, Galadimawa, Fatika, Kidandan, Saulawa, Dogon Dawa, Ngade Allah, Kuduru, Yadi, Damari, Takama, Sabuwa, Ungwar Yako and its connecting track to Kuduru, as well as the Kaduna-Birnin Gwari Road all of Birnin Gwari, Chikun, Igabi and Giwa local government areas. In a statement by Samuel Aruwan, Commissioner, Ministry of Internal Security and Home Affairs, Kaduna State, “according to the operational feedback to the Kaduna State Government, Rikau was observed to be active with bandits. The location was engaged accordingly, with several bandits neutralized. ” “Similarly, about 3km southeast of Saulawa, bandits were seen fleeing from the air raid with herds of cattle. They were engaged and neutralized. “Ground troops at Dogon Dawa and Sabon Birni reported a calm situation. All other areas covered were likewise calm with no suspicious activity observed. In a subsequent mission, armed reconnaissance was conducted over Kampanin Doka, Maganda, Farin Ruwa, Nachibi, Kwasakwasa, Sabon Kuyello, Sabon Layilasan and environs. At Maganda, two bandits were engaged and neutralized as they tried to escape the notice of the fighter jet crew. Ground troops reported bandit activities at Gatarawa, close to Rumana. While the crew did not establish clear contact, the location was strafed with probing shots into the dense vegetation. Normal activities were observed along the Kaduna-Birnin Gwari road and other locations covered. Receiving the report, Governor Nasir El-Rufai thanked the troops and crew for sustaining the pressure on identified bandit locations. “Vigorous ground and air patrols are set to continue in the general area.” Vanguard News Nigeria as jets hit their locations in Birnin Gwari, Giwa, Igabi & Chikun LGAs By Ibrahim HassanWuyo Many bandits have been killed in military Joint land and air operations conducted at identified bandit locations across Birnin Gwari, Giwa, Igabi, and Chikun local government areas of Kaduna state. Samuel Aruwan , Commissioner,… January 5, 2021 In "News" By Ibrahim HassanWuyo Air missions conducted by the military over locations of interest in Birnin Gwari, Giwa, Igabi and Chikun local government areas of Kaduna state have led to the killing of many bandits. Military sources said air platforms on Thursday conducted eight missions over identified bandit hideouts and other… January 16, 2021 In "News" By Ibrahim HassanWuyo Governor Nasir El-Rufai of Kaduna state has condoled Malam Musa Adamu, the husband of one Aisha, a seven-month pregnant woman who was killed by bandits on the Kaduna-Birnin Gwari Road in Chikun local government area of Kaduna state on Sunday. The Governor, who prayed for the repose… January 25, 2021 In "News"