Gangs of thieves have killed 18 people in several attacks in Kaduna state, a government official said Thursday. Gunmen on motorcycles stormed into several villages in Igabi and Chikun districts of Kaduna state on Tuesday and Wednesday, shooting residents, burning homes and stealing livestock, Samuel Aruwan, the state internal security commissioner, said. “Security agencies have reported a sequence of attacks by armed bandits on soft targets in Igabi and Chikun local government areas occurring over the last 48 hours,” he said in a statement. Gunmen invaded Anaba village in Igabi district, killing seven people and burning “several houses along with warehouses and barns,” Aruwan said. In another attack, a gang stormed Barinje village in Chikun district, shooting eight people dead and abducting some residents. Aruwan said the gunmen also wounded an “unspecified number” of people who were being treated in the hospital. He said the raids were reprisals for the killing of several so-called bandits in “targeted air operations” after an attack on Tuesday by cattle thieves that left three people dead. Northwest and central Nigeria are a hub for gangs of cattle thieves and kidnappers who raid villages, killing and abducting residents and looting and burning their homes. Earlier this month, bandits killed 19 people in attacks on villages in Kaduna’s Birnin Gwari and Kajuru districts. The gangs have no ideological leanings but there is concern they are being infiltrated by jihadists. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria Bandits have killed 23 persons in attacks across five local government areas of Kaduna State within 24 hours, the Commissioner, Internal Security and Home Affairs, Mr Samuel Aruwan has said. Aruwan, in a statement issued  to newsmen in Kaduna on Tuesday, said  the attacks occurred in Birnin Gwari, Giwa, Chikun,… February 9, 2021 In "News" The Kaduna State Government said on Sunday that bandits killed an 80-year-old woman and four other people in separate attacks in parts of the state. Mr Samuel Aruwan, the state’s Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs disclosed this in a statement. He said the old woman was killed when… January 18, 2021 In "News" Security agencies have reported the killing of an aged woman in Sharu village, Igabi local government area of Kaduna state. Samuel Aruwan, Commissioner, Ministry of Internal Security and Home Affairs, Kaduna State said on Sunday, that the armed bandits invaded the village and raided several homes. January 17, 2021 In "News"