The leadership of Economic Community West Africa State (ECOWAS), Youth Parliament (EYP) arm has honoured Comrade Usman Okai Austin CNA with meritorious award of HONOUR as ICON OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT 2021 in recognition of his Astuteness, Sagacity, Doggedness, and immense contributions for societal Transformation and support to youths and Students Education. Presenting the award to Political Activist on Wednesday, February 3, the Speaker of the Youth Parliament, represented by Christella Kouma from Ivory Coast said the award is retrievable if Usman Okai Austin compromises standard when it comes for standing in for Justice and sincerity. Also from regional office are Solmem Carine from Mali, Stephane Besso from Benin Republic. Christella Kouma, an Ivory Coast national, described Usman Okai Austin as “truly better by far, especially considering now that so many Comrades are compromising standard and for that he deserves all the accolades from sincere Pan African Movement”. The Youth Parliament Speaker said, “It is wise and patriotic to invest in leaders like Usman Okai Austin CNA, a man whose attributes are well-known; a person that understands and embodies the core value and aspiration of the youth, particularly the students, in our abiding quest for unity, peace, prosperity, mutual respect and peaceful co-existence.” In his response, Usman Okai Austin who was overwhelmed dedicated the award to God almighty who protects him and his wife Mrs Bridget Fedoje Enemali, in the hands of foes. Okai added that he is the kind of a man who does not want to be praised by anybody and will not at any time, or in any way, demand for recorgnisation hence, the award was a great surprise to him. Appreciating the organisers, Comrade Usman Okai Austin said that he is still wondering how the Parliament noticed his activities concluded that what is good enough for the award, promising to always uphold the tenets of the parliament. He, however, wished the parliament journey mercies to their various destinations. Vanguard News Nigeria Arogbonlo Israel For his unrivalled human rights records and unscathed social awareness and practices, United Nations council has honoured Comrade Usman Austin Okai, through his inauguration into the UN Economic and Social Council in Africa, ECOSOC. The appointment letter was jointly signed by Dr Jovylyn Espalabra, UNESC secretary General and… January 20, 2021 In "News" Ask security agents To call opposition party members to order PDP Director of Public Communication, Comrade Austin Usman Okai has raised alarm over deliberate attack on the convoy of PDP Governorship aspirant, Engineer Musa Wada in Ankpa by some members of the opposition party. Okai in a statement issued in… October 6, 2019 In "News" A social crusader,Comrade Austin Usman Okai has admonished kogi state government to focus more on returning students at all levels back to school, stop forthwith the mass sack in the civil service, pay bonafide workers their entitlements ‎and provide social safety nets as against providing unnecessary succour to were it… May 23, 2017 In "News"