Former governor of Anambra State, Mr. Peter Obi, has said that it’s suicidal for the Federal Government to be selling off assets to fund its budget. According to Obi, selling off assets is like selling off the future for the sake of the present, wondering “what will your children use tomorrow.” Peter Obi, a businessman and vice presidential candidate in 2019, said this on Arise TV’s Morning Show, on Monday, when asked to comment on FG selling off assets. At the interview session, he also expressed reservations over the claims of Garba Shehu that Transparency International, TI’s low rating in the corruption index was an indictment of Nigerians and not President Muhammadu Buhari or his administration. Peter Obi said any assessment of a country is about the government and not of the citizens: “It’s an assessment of transactions within the government and corporate body.” Vanguard had reported that Shehu, the Presidency’s spokesman, had said TI’s rating was not only blind to the Federal Government’s achievements, but was a judgement on Nigerians. Read the story HERE. Meanwhile, asked on Arise TV, on Monday, his take on the Federal Government selling off assets to fund its budget, Obi said: “It’s like asking me what is my take on selling my property in order to live for today what my children are going to live with. “If you sell the assets today, what are you going to sell tomorrow? What we need to do, as I keep saying, is to cut the cost of governance. “You cannot have a budget where your recurrent expenditure is 70 to 80% and then funding it with borrowing and sale of assets. You are just committing suicide,” Peter Obi declared. Vanguard News Nigeria FORMER Governor of Anambra State, Mr. Peter Obi, yesterday faulted the Federal Government’s borrowing of money from China to fund airport, saying that financing of such project should be done through the Nigerian capital market. May 26, 2017 In "News" ABUJA: Claims by the immediate-past governor of Anambra state, Peter Obi, that he ran a very lean administration and consequently left billions for his successor, Willie Obiano have been faulted by one of the aides of the ex-governor, Benji Obi, saying his former boss was far from the truth. October 14, 2016 In "News" The choice of a former governor of Anambra State, Mr. Peter Obi as the vice presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, was generally described as a deft move by a cross-section of Nigerians. October 13, 2018 In "Headlines"