Four months after the EndSars protest organized by the Nigerian youths, which allegedly witnessed the death of many at LekkiTollGate, a popular comedian, Bovi Ugboma, aka Bovi, Sunday appeared at The Headies 2021 with a blood-stained #EndSARS outfit. The 14th edition of the Headies awards was held virtually due to COVID-19 pandemic. The live event, held at Eko Hotels and Suites, Victoria Island, Lagos, featured nominees with electrifying performance. Passing a silent message against police brutality, killings, maiming, extortion and man in humanity to man, Bovi rocked a shirt stained with blood. The shirt which has Green, White, Green as it color symbolizes the Nigerian flag. At the night when #EndSars protesters were allegedly shot, Nigerian youths flaunted a flag allegedly stained with blood. Bovi’s action at the 2021 Headies was absolutely to pass a message of what allegedly happened that night. Obviously the winner of the best dressed at the #14thHeadies goes to Bovi.
Retweet if you agree pic.twitter.com/pnA8N6KzCk — Engr. Peter (@TweetbyGbolahan) February 22, 2021  Bovi deserves a million RT for the #endsars flag of 20/10/20
We haven’t forgotten and thar Desmond Elliott was there.
   
RT for others to see pic.twitter.com/LawuFJvnQz — Esv Dennis  (@Dennydhee) February 21, 2021  Vanguard News Nigeria By Nwafor Sunday Nigerians have taken to the micro blogging sites, ‘Facebook and Twitter’, to condemn the alleged attack on peaceful protesters '#ENDSARS', at Lekki Toll Gate, Lagos. Nigerian Police Force has been accused of maltreating and extra judiciously killing innocent youths in the country which led to the nationwide… October 20, 2020 In "SARS Update" For fun seekers who thronged the Landmark Event Centre, Oniru, Lagos, venue of the 2015 edition of the Headies, which held on January 1, the event would go down in history as one of the most controversial music awards in Nigeria. January 9, 2016 In "Entertainment" By Victoria Ojeme About thirty civil rights groups including Centre for Democracy and Development (CDD) and Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Centre (CISLAC) have called for the immediate prosecution of the killers of unarmed protesters demanding police reforms in Nigeria. The groups in a statement titled: "Killers of #EndSARS Protesters Must… October 21, 2020 In "News"