Nigeria’s grade of crude oil, Bonny Light, yesterday, witnessed a marginal rise of $1.63 cent, or 2.56 percent rise to $65.36 per barrel from the previous day, giving further relief to the nation’s budget benchmark, even as Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries Plus (OPEC+) mulls oil production increase. This development, according to global crude oil prices sighted by our correspondent, places the nation’s Excess Crude Account, ECA, on a positive trajectory. The ECA is the actual oil price minus the oil price benchmark. The value is sent to the Sovereign Wealth Fund, SWF, to be saved for the future generation, utilize as infrastructure fund, as well as stabilization fund. The current robust recovery in oil prices over the past months is driving the idea of a new commodities super cycle in which prices remain above-trend for many years to come. According to international prices of commodity seen by Vanguard, Brent Crude traded at $67.01, a decline of 0.03 cent, while the United States West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude gained $0.22, or 0.35 percent, to $63.44 a barrel. Nigeria’s grade of crude oil Bonny Light traded at $65.36 per barrel. Meanwhile, the Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries Plus (OPEC+) will discuss the possibility of increasing its oil production levels at the next meeting, OPEC+ sources told Reuters on Wednesday. (OPEC+) is a loosely affiliated entity consisting of the 13 OPEC members and 10 of the world’s major non-OPEC oil-exporting nations The group is set to meet on March 4, where it will discuss raising output as much as half a million barrels per day starting in April, the sources said. OPEC+ members are currently suppressing oil production by more than 7 million barrels per day, but with oil prices now on the rise and the markets getting the idea that the market could be tightening, OPEC+ may consider loosening the reins. The last Joint Ministerial Monitoring Committee Meeting of OPEC+ met in the first week of February ended without many surprises. Vanguard News Nigeria Nigeria’s grade of crude oil, Bonny Light, yesterday, witnessed a marginal rise of $1.63 cent, or 2.56 percent rise to $65.36 per barrel from the previous day, giving further relief to the nation’s budget benchmark, even as Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries Plus (OPEC+) mulls oil production increase. This… February 26, 2021 In "Business" Despite price recovery recorded last week in the international oil market, the Federal Government’s revised 2020 budget revenue stream would suffer significant pressures. This is because Nigeria will have to bear OPEC cut penalty of over 500,000 barrels per day (bpd), while production cost cutbacks has failed to materialize. June 15, 2020 In "News" Following the continued spread of coronavirus (COVID-19) and its impacts on the global commodity markets, there seems to be a heightened pressure on the nation’s budget as the price of Bonny Light declines to $29 per barrel. This is coming a day after Saudi Arabia flooded the international market with… March 17, 2020 In "Business"