An argument over electricity bills which ensued between a landlady’s daughter, Ms Tina Essi, and her tenant, has allegedly led to the tenant’s death in Ikorodu area of Lagos. Until the dastardly incident, both were residents of No 26 Orijamogun Street, Oreyo, Ikorodu, Lagos. However, Tina is currently cooling her heels with the at the State Criminal Investugatiins Department CID, Panti, Yaba, Lagos. Giving details into Tina’s arrest, Spokesperson of the command, CSP Ademuyiwa Adejobi said Police preliminary investigation revealed that on January 31, 2021, an argument, over the payment of electricity bills, ensued between the duo which led to a fight. Following the fight, the deceased had continually suffered severe pains, unfortunately, on Saturday 6th February 2021 at about 7am while the deceased was being rushed to the General Hospital, Ikorodu, he gave up the ghost. ALSO READ: Buni commends FEC for approving N8 Billion for completion of Damaturu water Project The Police operatives attached to Ikorodu Division of the command were contacted and arrested the suspect immediately. The Commissioner of Police has ordered that the suspect be transferred to the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Departmet, SCIID, Panti for thorough investigation. The Spokesperson said the Commissioner of Police, Lagos State Command CP Hakeem Odumosu has however urged the relatives of the deceased to remain calm as the command will do the needful to have justice done in the matter. The police boss also appealed to Lagosians to always manage their differences and conflicts with maturity and seek Police intervention where necessary to avoid untimely deaths and running into troubles. Vanguard News Nigeria Akure—DETECTIVES from Ondo State Police Command have arrested one Tope Akideji, who allegedly punched his 75-year-old landlord, Kayode Osunkalu, to death over electricity bill. March 15, 2016 In "News" For Koya Arowosegbe, life will never be the same again, owing to the loss of his right hand during an attack by his landlady’s son at their Agboro, Iyana-Ipaja abode, last Thursday. September 21, 2010 In "Metro" Lagos—Lagos State Police Command has arrested a 26-year-old pregnant woman who allegedly stabbed her husband to death during a quarrel over who would emerge winner between the Peoples Democratic Party and All Progressives Congress, APC presidential candidates, while voting was on-going , weekend, at Ejigbo area of the state. March 30, 2015 In "News"