Former aide to President Goodluck Jonathan, Pastor Reno Omokri, has expressed concern over the country’s security situation. In a brief statement, Omokri asked how possible it could be for a popular Islamic Scholar, Sheikh Abubakar Gumi to locate and take photographs with bandits and herdsmen, whereas the Nigerian Army and Police could not identify their various locations. Disclosing this on Saturday via his Facebook handle, Omokri said that the Army and Police can locate easily the Eastern Security Network, ESN that doesn’t kill but were unsuccessful to locate herdsmen and bandits that have been kidnapping, raping and killing innocent Nigerians. He said it surprises him that the likes of Zamfara State governor, Bello Matawalle and Aminu Masari of Katsina State had negotiated with bandits, yet Nigerian soldiers and police could not find their locations. Read his statement below: “How is it that Sheikh Gumi can jump into forests in Zamfara and Niger, and locate the whereabouts of bandits and killer herdsmen, but both the HQ Nigerian Army and Nigerian police can’t locate and exterminate them? “But they can locate and determine ESN that don’t kill. Sheikh Gumi took photos with bandits. Governor Masari held negations with them. Governor Mutawale holds meetings with them. “It seems everyone has access to bandits and killer herdsmen, except our Army and Police. Those ones only know how to find and kill ESN!” Vanguard News Nigeria …For saying herdsmen learnt kidnapping from N-Delta militants …Gumi's statement obnoxious — Edwin Clark …Irrational, bizarre, outrageous — PANDEF …Gumi’s remarks disgusting, insulting — Izon Ebi …Spiritual evaluation needed — Whiskey …Herdsmen have overrun the country, says Ayemi-Botu ...2 Abia LGs taken over by killer herdsmen, bandits, Reps tell IGP… February 17, 2021 In "News" By Ikechukwu Amaechi ISLAMIC cleric Sheikh Ahmad Gumi is a man with a lot of clout in his neck of the woods. A retired army officer and a medical doctor who decided to be a full-time Islamic preacher, his people put much stock in whatever he says. So, when he… February 13, 2021 In "Totally Real with Ikechukwu Amaechi" The immediate past president of Nigeria, Dr. Goodluck Jonathan, and the Senator representing Bayelsa East Senatorial district, Senator Ben Murray-Bruce, have hailed the former aide and number one bestselling author, Pastor Reno Omokri who has clocked 44 years of age today January 22, 2018 In "News"