Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue state has come out of isolation after testing negative to COVID-19. The Governor had about week ago gone into isolation for treatment after his COVID-19 test returned positive. Announcing his status Wednesday in Makurdi, Governor Ortom said his sample was two days ago taken again for test and it came out negative. “I want to thank the Almighty God for what happened to me about a week ago. On my own I went for test for COVID-19 after some of my aides tested positive for the virus. “Unfortunately after the test, I also came out positive and I decided to isolate myself. By the grace of God yesterday when the test was repeated the test came out negative. “I appreciate the entire Benue people for their prayers, love and kindness. I commend my Deputy and appointees because while in isolation we were still running the government and I everything went well. “I also appreciate all those who called from within and outside the country to pray for my quick recovery. I will not take that love for granted. “I urge Nigerians to always avail themselves for early testing so as to start the treatment early when positive, ” the Governor said. Vanguard News Nigeria Governor goes into self-isolation, calls for mass testing By Peter Duru - Makurdi Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue state, Saturday disclosed that aside from his wife and son, his Chief of Staff, Terwase Orbunde, Head of Service, Veronica Onyeke, Secretary to the State Government, SSG, Anthony Ijoho and the Vice… July 4, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" A Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, stalwart and former National Assembly member from Benue State, Mrs Rebecca Apedzan has tested positive for coronavirus, COVID-19 in Makurdi. May 12, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" By Peter Duru The Chief of Staff to the Benue State Governor, Mr Terwase Orbunde, who three weeks ago tested positive for COVID-19 has been successfully treated and discharged from the isolation centre in Makurdi. Mr Orbunde who made his status known in a statement he personally signed yesterday in… July 27, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"