Leading Video Entertainment Provider, MultiChoice Nigeria, has announced a price slash on its DStv and GOtv decoders. The new prices which commenced Monday, are meant to cushion the economic effect of Covid-19 on prospective customers and make it budget friendly to Nigerians. According to the company, the price slash will see the DStv HD decoder, dish kit with Compact package subscription drop from N18, 600 to N9, 900 on Confam package, while GOtv decoder, GOtennae  with GOtv Jolli package subscription will go from N8, 400 to N6, 900. DStv Confam is one of two recently improved DStv packages specially designed for the Nigerian family. The company said with over 120 channels, DStv Confam offers the best of family time with international entertainment, kids, news, and sports boasting of a range of channels including SuperSport La Liga, Cartoon Network among others. GOtv Jolli, also, a recently improved package on the DTT offering offers a broad selection of over 68 local and international channels to choose from. Some of the channels available include SuperSport Football, ROK 2, Telemundo, FOX, Davinci Learning and Africa News. Chief Customer Officer, MultiChoice Nigeria, Martin Mabutho, speaking at a virtual media briefing explained that  the  price slash is part of MultiChoice’s long line of efforts to lessen the economic impact of COVID on customers and a reflection of its commitment to making quality entertainment more accessible to Nigerians. Mabutho said: “With this discount, we are lowering the entry barrier for new customers to get a DStv or GOtv decoder as staying connected to credible information and another quality programming can be comforting for many families during these trying times.” He also listed some of the company’s relief strategies deployed during the first wave of the pandemic to include: cash donations of  N200 million and  N50 million to the Federal Government and Lagos State Government respectively,  N400 million to the creative industry, whose professionals experienced disruptions in productions; donation of 30,000 Personal Protective Equipment and 30,000 face masks to hospitals and Non-Governmental Organisations as well as an approved inventory worth over N550m highlighting NCDC’s COVID-19 helplines and PSA materials on over 10 channels on DStv and GOtv. Mabutho added: “In addition to the discount, we are currently running our DStv Step-Up offer which gives our customers on lower packages an opportunity to experience programming on higher packages and a GOtv Max offer which sees customers on Jolli and Jinja enjoy a special discount of N2, 999 instead of N3, 600 per month.” Vanguard News Nigeria By Princewill Ekwujuru   MultiChoice Nigeria, owners of the Digital Satellite Television (DStv) and Gotv, has announced a price slash on its DStv and GOtv decoders with effect from February I, 2021 and will last for a month. The price slash, according to the company, will see subscription to the… February 1, 2021 In "Business" Leading video entertainment provider, MultiChoice Nigeria, has announced a price slash on its DStv and GOtv decoders starting Monday, February 1st, 2021. The price slash will see the DStv HD decoder, dish kit with Compact package subscription drop from N18,600 to N9,900 on Confam package, while GOtv decoder, GOtennae with… January 29, 2021 In "News" Africa’s leading video entertainment company, MultiChoice, has unveiled five new packages for its DStv and GOtv platforms to deliver more quality content at great value for customers during the upcoming festive season and beyond. November 24, 2019 In "Entertainment"