Dr Olu Agunloye has dismissed the widespread report of an attack on Nobel Laureate, Professor Wole Soyinka’s house by herdsmen in Abeokuta, Ogun State on Wednesday, and urged the public to disregard it. According to Agunloye, “The trending story that herdsmen went to attack Prof Wole Soyinka in his house in Abeokuta is not true. “Herdsmen did not break into his house. There were no attacks and no attempts to attack the Nobel Laureate. “What happened was that herdsmen led their cattle to graze in Prof Soyinka’s unfenced compound again yesterday despite his strong warnings to the herdsmen. “Prof Soyinka has been living in the forest at the outskirt of Abeokuta in Area designated as GRA since the late 1980s. “However, in recent times cattle herders have desecrated the grounds of Professor Soyinka’s compound by flooding it with cows. The Professor summoned the herdsmen and sternly warned them to stop the ugly practice. He told them in very clear terms that it was unacceptable. “However, the herdsmen broke the rules yesterday thinking that Prof Soyinka was not home. When the Prof accosted them, they fled into the bush leaving their cows behind. Prof Soyinka reported the incident to the Police which later arrested the herdsmen and their cows. “We can say categorically that Prof Soyinka and his house were not physically attacked but his compound was violated by recalcitrant herdsmen who wanted to turn his compound to a grazing field. Prof Soyinka and his family remain okay in their Abeokuta home.” Vanguard News Nigeria ...It's a case of stray cow, Police By James Ogunnaike Dr. Olaokun Soyinka, one of the children of the Nobel Laureate, Prof. Wole Soyinka on Wednesday debunked rumour on social media about the alleged attack on his father by Fulani herdsmen. The young Soyinka said in a statement he circulated… February 10, 2021 In "Business" ...It's a case of stray cow - Police By James Ogunnaike - Abeokuta Dr Olaokun Soyinka, one of the children of the Nobel Laureate, Professor Wole Soyinka on Wednesday debunked rumour on social media about the alleged attack on his father by Fulani herdsmen. The young Soyinka said in a… February 11, 2021 In "News" By Peter Duru, Chimaobi Nwaiwu, Davies Iheamnachor & Ibrahim HassanWuyo Pan-Yoruba group, Afenifere, Arewa Consultative Forum, ACF, Middle Belt Forum, MBF, and Pan-Niger Delta Forum, PANDEF, yesterday rose in support of Nobel laureate , Professor Wole Soyinka, asking President Muhammadu Buhari to act fast on the herders' crisis to avert… February 9, 2021 In "News"