Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP), Saturday, called on the Federal government led by President Muhammadu Buhari, to release #EndSARS protesters. The right group equally called for the release of a popular comedian, Macaroni. Disclosing this via its twitter handle, SERAP described the arrest as ‘unlawfully’, demanding for the release of #OccupyLekkiTollGate protesters. Read the tweets below: “Release unlawfully detained Mr. Macaroni. Release unlawfully detained #EndSARS protesters. The United Nations and concerned governments should press the Nigerian authorities to end the crackdown on peaceful protesters, and unconditionally release those arbitrarily detained. “We urge Nigerian authorities and  Police to immediately and unconditionally release #EndSARS protesters detained simply for peacefully exercising their human rights. “Authorities should also cease harassing people peacefully exercising their human rights. We’ll pursue appropriate legal actions if the #EndSARS protesters arbitrarily arrested simply for peacefully exercising their human rights are not immediately and unconditionally released. “Peaceful assembly is a fundamental right. We’ll pursue appropriate legal actions if the #EndSARS protesters arbitrarily arrested simply for peacefully exercising their human rights are not immediately and unconditionally released. Peaceful assembly is a fundamental right. Freedom of expression is a constitutional right Peaceful assembly is a constitutional right Freedom of expression is a constitutional right Peaceful assembly is a constitutional right Freedom of expression is a constitutional right Peaceful assembly is a constitutional right” Vanguard News Nigeria By Nwafor Sunday A non-governmental and Human Rights organization, Amnesty International, has cautioned the security agencies to henceforth stop intimidating peaceful protesters who are demanding an end to bad governance, police brutality and inhumanity to man, others against the citizens. Amnesty’s reaction came at a time when Nigerian youths are… February 13, 2021 In "News" By Nwafor Sunday Irked by the arrest of #OccupyLekkiTollGate protesters, a former presidential aspirant, Adamu Garba, Saturday called on the federal government led by President Muhammadu Buhari and the Nigerian Police Force to release protesters demanding for good governance, noting that he would rather have a peaceful protesters than bandits… February 13, 2021 In "News" Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP) has sent an Urgent Appeal to Rt Hon Patricia Scotland QC, Secretary-General of the Commonwealth, urging her to use her “leadership position to apply the Commonwealth Charter to hold Nigerian authorities to account for widespread and persistent attacks on peaceful protesters, reports of human… October 11, 2020 In "News"