A 64-year-old chief and three others have been abducted by suspected pirates terrorising the people of the coastal area of Nembe, Brass and Akassa in Nembe and Brass Local Government Areas of Bayelsa State. The development, it was gathered, has forced maritime workers to down tools in the troubled axis, leaving commuters stranded. The state Chairman of Nigerian Maritime Union, Ogoniba Ibingansi, confirmed on phone that the waterways are no longer safe and all boats operating along Odioma, Akassa, Brass and Nembe are no longer loading with passengers told to stay away. Ibingansi also confirmed that the security agencies, including Special Adviser on Security Matters to the Bayelsa State Government, are battling to counter the pirates. A source, who spoke under anonymity said: “Pirates have been operating along the waters since last Sunday. It is funny. They attacked some boats and robbed all the passengers, Monday evening. “They abducted three persons, attacked another boat and kidnapped four. They used the earlier seized boat to release the first three persons.” It was also learned that on Monday evening, along the Yenagoa-Akassa in Brass Local Government Area route, a businessman was stripped naked and taken away by the heavily armed pirates. The rampaging sea robbers reportedly surfaced along Odioma Creek and attacked a boat heading to Nembe around 2 pm and took away one person. They attacked another boat heading to Brass from Nembe and abducted three persons. CP orders manhunt for the kidnappers Meanwhile, the state Commissioner of Police Mike Okoli, has ordered an immediate manhunt for the kidnappers, who attacked speedboats and kidnapped passengers on the Okpoma/Odioma and Nembe/Brass waterways on Tuesday. In a statement, spokesman of the command,  Asinim Butswat, said the two separate incidents occurred simultaneously and six passengers were allegedly kidnapped by unknown gunmen suspected to be pirates. He said: “In a joint operation, operatives from the Marine Police, Navy and Joint Task Force of Operation Delta Safe are combing the creeks to rescue the kidnapped victims and apprehend the kidnappers. “The command appeals to the good people of Bayelsa State to remain calm and volunteer useful information to enable the security agencies to fish out these hoodlums.” Vanguard News Nigeria Fear has heightened among indigenes of the coastal area of Nembe, Brass and Akassa in Nembe and Brass Local Government Areas of Bayelsa State as suspected sea pirates terrorise commercial boats and abduction of a 64year old chief and three others. February 11, 2021 In "News" Suspected pirates Saturday, attacked a tug boat belonging to the Nigerian Agip Company, NOAC, along the Nembe creeks in Bayelsa State. An engineer and the boat's captain were reportedly kidnapped. The attack, it was learnt, was launched in the evening by seven armed men suspected to the pirates. January 28, 2014 In "News" Barely 48 hours after an ambush that killed three passengers on Tuesday, gunmen suspected to be sea pirates on Thursday hijacked another passenger boat along Nembe-Brass waterways. September 28, 2017 In "News"